You look exhausted! (C0043)
Miss Wang you seem very tired.
Yes, I’m very tired. My work is very troublesome. Every day I start work at eight o’clock and finish work at six o’ clock.
Whoa! That’s too busy! That is more or less ten hours of work. You should rest.
There’s no way I can rest.

Weather, Man (C0049)
What are you doing tomorrow?
I'm not sure. If it rains, I will stay at home.
And if the weather is good?
I will go out.

City Comparison (C0054)
Last year I moved from Shanghai to Hong Kong. But I prefer Shanghai.
Why do you prefer Shanghai? I believe Hong Kong is more modern than Shanghai.
I don’t agree. I believe Shanghai is better. Shanghai is more beautiful than Hong Kong. The weather is also comparatively good.

Chinese Celebrity: Bruce Lee (C0059)
Who is China’s most famous movie star? Of course it’s Bruce Lee, or Li Xiaolong.
He is a native of Hong Kong.
He is a master of kung fu movies.
He became a world superstar in Hollywood.
His trademark was his nunchucks and his yell.

China’s Supergirl (C0060)
This year the hottest thing in Chinese pop culture is a television program called “Super Girls”.
Like American Idol, Super Girls is a talent show to pick out the most brilliant female singer.
The final winner was Li Yuchun.

Talking about Illness (C0063)
What's wrong with you? Where do you feel uncomfortable?
I have a headache and a sore throat. I have a cold.
Have you taken any medicine?
I have.
I've got a lot of cold medicine here, both Chinese and Western medicine. I'll give you some.
Thank you so much.

Future Plans (C0066)
Have you graduated from university Miss Li?
I just graduated. I graduated from Shanghai University. My major is business administration.
Fantastic! What are your plans? Do you want to continue studying or find a job?
I don’t want to continue studying. My plan is to work in an international company.
That’s a pretty good plan. There are a lot of job opportunities in Shanghai.

Shopping (C0068)
Mrs. Li, if I move to Shanghai is buying things convenient or not?
Shanghai has many department stores. In the department stores you can find anything. But the price is a little expensive.
Outside of the department stores, are there any other places to shop?
There are many markets in Shanghai. Prices are more reasonable there.
In Shanghai must I use cash to pay? Can I use a credit card?
Both cash and credit cards are OK.

Christmas (C0069)
I’m looking forward to Christmas because my entire family will be at home.
Really？I don’t like Christmas because I am going to visit my relatives. That is very boring.
That’s awful! I like Christmas because my relatives will give me nice gifts. 
I got a toothbrush from my parents. I don’t like Christmas.

Discussing Work (C0070)
Mr. Wang, you seem very tired. Are you under too much pressure?
Perhaps. My boss gives me a lot of pressure. I start work very early and finish very late. I often work overtime on the weekend.
How long have you been with that company?
I’ve worked with this company for over eight years. But I’m not satisfied with my salary. My salary is too low.
Why don’t you change your job? For someone like you with a lot of working experience finding a job is easy.
You’re right. I should think about that.

Celebration Plans and New Year’s Resolutions (C0074)
New Year’s Eve is next Thursday and I still haven’t decided how to spend it.
What did you do last New Year’s Eve?
I went to a downtown party with my girlfriend.
 We had a lot to drink and danced all night.
 We had a great time. But it was very expensive.
 I can’t afford to do that again. This year I want to do something different.
Why don’t you have a party in your apartment?
 Your apartment is perfect for a New Year’s party.
 You could invite all your friends and have a great time.
That’s a great idea. I’ll think about it.
 It depends on my girlfriend. Hey, what are your New Year’s resolutions?
New Year’s resolutions? Oh, yeah. I’ve decided to take better care of my health.
 I’m going to give up smoking and join a gym.
 I really need to lose weight, so I’m planning to work out regularly. How about you?
I’m glad that this year will soon be over.
 This year has been very difficult for me.
 I’ve been under a lot of pressure at work.
 To be honest, I’m considering changing my job next year.
 I need to relax more and enjoy my life.

Business Style (C0076)
I’m going to China on a business trip next month.
 I’d heard that Chinese people like to do business while dining.
That’s right. In China business people spend time getting to know each other before doing business.
 That means that you will spend a lot of time talking business over dinner and socializing with your Chinese colleagues.
I see. But doesn’t that take a lot of time.
Yeah, it takes a lot of time, but it’s important.
 A lot of business in China is carried out through good relationships.
 It’s really important that you understand that point.
Okay. I’ll make sure to build a good relationship before talking business.

Describing Travels (C0078)
I’m going to China next month for two weeks vacation, but I still haven’t decided where in China to go.
Really? I went to China two years ago. I had a great time.
Then give me some suggestions. Where is fun?
If I were you, I’d stay in Beijing for three days because there are many tourist attractions in Beijing, such as the Great Wall, the Summer Palace and Tiananmen Square.
I’ve heard Shanghai is pretty good too. Should I go to Shanghai?
You absolutely must go. You should spend three days in Shanghai because it is a fashionable city. It’s famous for its night life and shopping. You can also go to Hangzhou quite conveniently.
Oh, I’ve heard Hanghou’s scenery is very beautiful, and it’s also a good place to relax.
Finally, you should go to Hong Kong because Hong Kong is the most famous shopping paradise in Asia.
Great. I can’t wait to go to China.

Finding a Supermarket (C0082)
I’ve just moved here. I don’t know where to go shopping. Do you have any good suggestions?
In this area, there is a supermarket in addition to the department store.
 I think the supermarket is the most convenient place to buy things. When I want to buy things, I go there.
That’s great. If I want to buy something, I’ll go there, too.
Yes. That market is big and clean.
 There are lots of things inside. Shopping there can not only save you time, but also money as their prices are reasonable.
 They also often have discounts.
OK. I’ll certainly go to the supermarket to buy things. Thanks for your suggestions.

Keeping in Touch (C0084)
Hello? Mr. Li. Long time no see. I'm sorry that lately I haven't had the time to see you. How are you doing?
Hello. Don't worry about it. I called you three times. Once I couldn't get through and twice no one answered.
Sorry. I changed my telephone number. My new number is 6344-5598.
I sent you an email the day before yesterday. Did you get it?
Recently I haven't had any way to check my email. What’s the matter?
When do you have time? I'd like to talk with you.
In that case contact my secretary. She can help you arrange a time.
Okay. We’ll do it like that. I'll chat with you later on. Goodbye.

Pop Music and Pop Culture (C0085)
Young people in China like to listen to pop music.
For example, this year the most popular singer is Pang Long.
In the past western pop music was very popular in China.
Now Japanese and Korean pop music is very hot too.
Now young people often go bar hopping.
They can dance in discos, and listen to music and chat with friends in bars.
This is a new thing in China.
In the past young people weren’t willing to go to bars.
Now they are used to socializing in bars.

Apartment Hunting (C0086)
Have you come to see the house? Let me introduce it to you.
OK.
This is the kitchen.
 Beside it is the toilet.
 This is the living room and the bedroom is behind it.
 How do you feel about the house?
It's OK. I think the toilet is a little bit small and the living room is a little bit dark.
You are right, but the bedroom is very large. Would you like to rent it?
I will consider it.

Buying a Computer (C0096)
I'd like to buy a laptop computer.
Which brand do you want? What is your budget?
My budget is $1,000 USD and I'd like to buy a Dell.
How about this one? This is the latest Dell computer, but it is above your budget. The price is US$1,200.
US$1,200. Does that include the power converter?
Yes. The power converter is included, but the mouse is extra.

Negotiating Price (C0100)
This walkman looks good. Does it come with earphones?
The earphones are included and the price is reasonable. It's only US$200.
That seems a bit expensive to me. Is there any discount?
Okay, but you must give me the batteries for free.

A Disappointment (C0102)
I’m not in a good mood today.
Last week I had a Chinese test and today I found out that I didn’t pass.
I’m very disappointed because I put forth a lot of effort.
I spent a lot of time studying in the library, working on lots of exercises, and practicing with classmates.
 Maybe I was too nervous when I took the exam.
I’m determined to do better in the future and pass the next test.

Future Goals (C0104)
I’m ambitious and I’m willing to work hard in the future.
One of my goals is to go to China to do business.
I want to set up my own company.
I plan to export clothes from China to America.
If I work hard, I think I will be successful.

How was your date? (C0106)
Tell me about your date last night. How did it go?
It was great. I really like this girl. Not only is she beautiful, but she has a great personality.
Yeah. I remember you broke up with your last girlfriend because she was too severe.
That’s right. I’m looking for a girl who is funny and outgoing.

Requesting a Raise (C0107)
You look upset. What's up?
I told my boss that my performance is good. I should be given a raise.
He doesn't agree?
He says that although my performance is good, I haven't been with the company for long.

Chinese Tea (C0114)
