Negotiating Price (C0100)
This walkman looks good. Does it come with earphones?
The earphones are included and the price is reasonable. It's only US$200.
That seems a bit expensive to me. Is there any discount?
Okay, but you must give me the batteries for free.

A Disappointment (C0102)
I’m not in a good mood today.
Last week I had a Chinese test and today I found out that I didn’t pass.
I’m very disappointed because I put forth a lot of effort.
I spent a lot of time studying in the library, working on lots of exercises, and practicing with classmates.
 Maybe I was too nervous when I took the exam.
I’m determined to do better in the future and pass the next test.

Future Goals (C0104)
I’m ambitious and I’m willing to work hard in the future.
One of my goals is to go to China to do business.
I want to set up my own company.
I plan to export clothes from China to America.
If I work hard, I think I will be successful.

How was your date? (C0106)
Tell me about your date last night. How did it go?
It was great. I really like this girl. Not only is she beautiful, but she has a great personality.
Yeah. I remember you broke up with your last girlfriend because she was too severe.
That’s right. I’m looking for a girl who is funny and outgoing.

Requesting a Raise (C0107)
You look upset. What's up?
I told my boss that my performance is good. I should be given a raise.
He doesn't agree?
He says that although my performance is good, I haven't been with the company for long.

Chinese Tea (C0114)
Tomorrow I’m going to see my girlfriend’s dad.
Really? Are you well prepared?
Not yet. I’ve no idea what gift I should buy.
Does he like to drink tea? Good tea is a good gift.
Yeah. Tea is a very healthy drink. But which kind of tea should I buy?
Good green tea is the safest choice.
 For example Longjing or Bi Luo Chun.
 Men usually like to drink green tea, and especially older men.
You are right. I’ll just give Longjing to her dad.

Shanghai Fashion (C0116)
Shanghai is often called ‘the Paris of the East’.
Because the Shanghainese people, and especially the Shanghai women, pay close attention to their appearance.
There are many department stores in Shanghai.
Shanghainese women can buy the trendiest clothes.
Many women spend a lot of money buying clothes and accessories.
When department stores have a sale, there are often people lined up outside

Traditional Chinese Medicine (C0120)
I always see you drinking hot water. Do you have any particular reason for this?
Drinking hot water makes me feel warm. Especially in the winter, I drink hot water every day.
Are there any other benefits?
I heard from a doctor of Chinese medicine that drinking hot water can sooth the throat.
Is that so? Do you think it’s useful?
I think it’s very useful. Every time when my throat isn’t comfortable, drinking hot water makes it feel much better.
I’ll also try it, then.

A Promotion (C0123)
I got some great news today. My boss told me that she is going to promote me to marketing manager.
That’s fantastic! Did you expect to get a promotion?
No. I never expected to get a promotion so soon. But my boss said that my working attitude and performance are excellent and that I deserve a promotion.
How much of a raise are you getting?
Ten percent.

Family Life (C0125)
In the traditional Chinese way of seeing things, a father should be responsible for supporting the family. 
He works hard to give his family a good life. 
A mother's responsibility is to take care of the whole family. 
The children should obey and respect their parents and people more senior than themselves. 
They should listen to and obey their parents.
Parents in China pay a lot of attention to their children's education. 
They have very high expectations of them.

Complaining to the Waiter (C0132)
I really hate it when someone smokes in the non-smoking area of a restaurant. Yesterday I was having dinner with my girlfriend when the guy next to our table started to smoke.
Why didn’t you ask him to stop smoking?
I did and he just ignored me. He was smoking and talking loudly on his mobile. I was so pissed off. So I complained to the waiter.
What did the waiter say? How did he handle it?
The waiter was really embarrassed and told me that the guy was the boss of the restaurant. There was nothing he could do.
What happened next?
We didn’t leave a tip.

Stop speeding! (C0137)
You know, you are a really terrible driver. You always drive too fast and are very careless.
That’s not true. I’m a responsible driver. I really pay attention to traffic rules. I’ve never received a fine.
Not true! You got three tickets last year for speeding. You even got a ticket for running a red light.
That time, the light hadn’t really turned red. It had just turned yellow. The policeman made a mistake.

144-194