Teaching English in China (C0202)
I've got a friend who wants to work in China. Is it easy to get a job here?
That depends on what he wants to do. But there are a lot of opportunities for teaching spoken English.
Are there? Do you need teaching qualification and experience?
That will be the best. But it is not essential. Normally a university degree will do. The school will offer training.
Are there any other requirements?
Communication skills are very important in teaching spoken English. Ideally, teachers should be sociable and personable, and good at motivating the students to participate.
Do you need to work full time?
Not always. Many schools now need part-time teachers.
What about the pay? Does the school take care of accommodation?
Expat teachers are quite well-paid. Some schools offer accommodation. But schools in big cities normally don't.

Cooking Wings (C0211)
A: Good news! I'm making you roasted chicken wings in a little while. You are in for a treat.
B: Really? That's fantastic. How do you make the wings?
A: It’s really simple, but takes some time. Do you want to join me?
B: Sure. Do you defrost the wings first?
A: Yes. Start by defrosting the wings in the microwave. Put them in a large bowl and smear on some barbecue sauce. Marinate the wings for two hours in spring onion, ginger, salt, chicken essence and half a bowl of soy sauce.
B: What? You still have to marinate for two hours? That’s more work than I thought. What do we do after that?
A: Then cook the chicken wings for 20 minutes in an oven and you're done! It's actually no trouble at all. Marinating lets the flavor really get absorbed so that they will taste better.
B: I see. Let's start now.

Using a Dictionary (C0220)
I am learning how to look up Chinese characters in a dictionary, but it's really tough.
Don't worry. You look up a character according to its radical, but you have to first be clear about the character's structure and radical.
That's exactly the way I do it. I start by analyzing whether a character is structured left/right or top/bottom, then look for its radical. Still, I often can't find the character.
Really? You have to determine the correct radical, and count the number of strokes in the radical. If the number of the strokes is wrong, you won’t be able to find it.
But some of the characters are really simple, and I can't figure out which is the radical, so I never know how to look them up.
For these kinds of characters, you can look them up by total number of strokes.
Ah, I see. I really appreciate your help. What should I do if I want to look up a word?
To look up a word, you have to use a word dictionary.
Thanks for teaching me these methods. I’m going to go try them out now.

A Fated Meeting (C0230)
Are you Chen Li? I’m Zhang Liang.
Hi. Have you been here a long time? I am really sorry to keep you waiting. The traffic was really bad.
It doesn't matter, I've only been here a short while. Let's go sit down in the coffee shop over there.
Ok. In person you seem very similar to how you seem online.
Do I? People all say I'm better looking in person. Only joking.
Ha, not bad.
What would you like to drink? Hot or cold?
A hot mocha. What about you?
I'll have a hot mocha as well. Is work busy?
It's all right. I normally don't have to work overtime. How about you?
Wow, you're lucky. I work late pretty much all the time. So you usually go online at home?
Yes. When I get off work I have nothing to do, so I go online. But our BBS is a lot of fun. Everyone seems to have interesting ideas. How do you find so much time to stay online with such a busy work schedule?
I often do it secretly while working overtime. I also like the people on the BBS very much, especially...
Our mochas are ready.

Airport Announcements (C0238)
Passengers flying to Los Angeles on China Eastern flight MU583, we are sorry to announce that due to poor weather conditions China Eastern flight MU583 will not depart at the originally scheduled time. 
Passengers flying Northwest Airlines flight NW8643 to New York, the boarding gate for your flight has been changed. Please proceed to Gate 8 for boarding. 
Passengers flying to Vancouver on Air China flight CA992, your flight is now boarding.


