
Upper-Intermediate - Farm Life Tourism

Upper-Intermediate - Farm Life Tourism

(D2159)

A:

胡老板，您好，您现在可是我们县响当当的农民企业家，跟观众们打声招呼吧。

Hú lǎobǎn, nínhǎo, nín xiànzài kěshì wǒmen xiàn xiǎngdāngdāng de nóngmín qǐyèjiā, gēn guānzhòng men dǎshēngzhāohu ba.

Boss Hu, hello! You are currently our county's outstanding countryside business leader. Say hello to our audience!

B:

不敢当！大家好，欢迎大家来老胡农家乐做客。

bù gǎndāng! dàjiā hǎo, huānyíng dàjiā lái Lǎo Hú nóngjiālè zuòkè.

I'm flattered! Hello, everyone! You are all welcome as guests to Old Hu's Farm Life Inn.

A:

胡老板，据我了解您以前是个只会做农活的农民，怎么会想起来经营农家乐呢？这可是现在最热门的旅游形式。

Hú lǎobǎn, jù wǒ liǎojiě nín yǐqián shì gè zhǐ huì zuò nónghuó de nóngmín, zénme huì xiǎng qǐlai jīngyíng nóngjiālè ne? zhè kěshì xiànzài zuì rèmén de lǚyóu xíngshì.

Boss Hu, from what we know, before you only made a living from farming the land. How did you think of running a farm life inn? Now this really is the hottest form of travel.

B:

生活所迫吧。做农活赚不了几个钱。家里上有老下有小，小的要读书，老的要看病，都需要钱。没办法啊！后来我们就想在家门口开个小饭店吧。我那口子做的菜在我们村是最好吃的。

shēnghuósuǒpò ba. zuò nónghuó zhuànbùliǎo jǐ ge qián. jiālǐ shàngyǒulǎoxiàyǒuxiǎo, xiǎode yào dúshū, lǎode yào kànbìng, dōu xūyào qián. méi bànfǎ a! hòulái wǒmen jiù xiǎng zài jiā ménkǒu kāi gè xiǎo fàndiàn ba. wǒ nàkǒuzi zuò de cài zài wǒmen cūn shì zuì hǎochī de.

Life makes one do all kinds of things, right? Farming the land, one can't earn a lot of money. The family has both old and young people. The young folks need to study and the old folks need to go to the doctor. All of this requires money. There was no choice! The result was that we wanted to open up a small restaurant outside our door. The food my wife makes is the tastiest in our village.

A:

看来是您爱人的功劳啊。那后来怎么改成农家乐了？

kànlai shì nín àiren de gōngláo a. nà hòulái zěnme gǎichéng nóngjiālè le?

It looks like the credit goes to your wife! How then did it become a farm life inn?

B:

有一次几个城里人来店里吃饭。吃完以后，就让我带他们去河里钓鱼捉螃蟹，去看油菜花，说是这些东西城里没有，玩得可开心了。

yǒuyīcì jǐ ge chénglǐrén lái diàn lǐ chīfàn. chīwán yǐhòu, jiù ràng wǒ dài tāmen qù hé lǐ diàoyú zhuō pángxiè, qù kàn yóucàihuā, shuō shì zhèxiē dōngxi chénglǐ méiyǒu, wán de kě kāixīn le.

One time some people from the city came to the restaurant to eat. After eating, they asked me to take them to the river to go fishing and catch crabs, and to go look at the rapeseed flowers. They said they don't have these things in the city and they had a really great time.

A:

这个我能理解。以前大家都羡慕城里人的生活，都往城里挤。现在在城里呆腻了，就特向往农村的生活。有新鲜的空气，自己种的菜，多美好啊！

zhè ge wǒ néng lǐjiě. yǐqián dàjiā dōu xiànmù chénglǐrén de shēnghuó, dōu wǎng chénglǐ jǐ. xiànzài zài chénglǐ dāi nì le, jiù tè xiàngwǎng nóngcūn de shēnghuó. yǒu xīnxiān de kōngqì, zìjǐ zhòng de cài, duō měihǎo a!

I can understand this. Before everyone admired the lives of those in the city, and everyone crammed their way into the city. Now everyone in the city is sick of it, and especially yearn for life in the countryside. There you have fresh air and food you've grown yourself. It's great!

B:

哈哈！后来我一想，这可是个吸引客人的好法子啊。就这样慢慢搞起来。

hāhā! hòulái wǒ yī xiǎng, zhè kě shì gè xīyǐn kèrén de hǎo fǎzi a. jiù zhèyàng mànmàn gǎo qǐlái.

Haha! Afterwards, I thought that this is really a good way to attract guests. Then this way slowly things came together.

A:

您现在为游客安排了哪些活动呢？

nín xiànzài wèi yóukè ānpái le nǎxiē huódòng ne?

What kind of activities do you arrange for guests?

B:

很多啊，比如有体验农民生活的，教他们怎么养鸡养鸭养猪，种菜。今年还新开发了摘草莓活动。游客自己去地里摘，摘下来以后可以带回去送给亲朋好友。

hěn duō ā, bǐrú yǒu tǐyàn nóngmín shēnghuó de, jiāo tāmen zěnme yǎng jī yǎng yā yǎng zhū, zhòngcài. jīnnián hái xīn kāifā le zhāi cǎoméi huódòng. yóukè zìjǐ qù dìlǐ zhāi, zhāi xiàlai yǐhòu kěyǐ dài huíqu sònggěi qīnpénghǎoyǒu.

Lots! For example, to have an experience of country life, we teach them how to raise chickens, ducks and pigs and how to plant vegetables. This year we've also launched a new strawberry picking activity. Travelers themselves can go to the patches to pick them, and after they've picked them, they can take them home to give to their family and friends.

A:

带走要付钱吗？

dàizǒu yào fùqián ma?

Do they have to pay to take them with them?

B:

那当然要。不过自己摘更新鲜，更健康，更安全，还有乐趣。

nà dāngrán yào. bùguò zìjǐ zhāi gèng xīnxiān, gèng jiànkāng, gèng ānquán, háiyǒu lèqù.

Of course they do. However, the ones you pick yourself are fresher, healthier, safer and also more fun.

A:

下面请大家跟随我们的镜头一起去老胡农家乐做客！

xiàmiàn qǐng dàjiā gēnsuí wǒmen de jìngtóu yīqǐ qù LǎoHú nóngjiālè zuòkè!

Next we invite everyone to come along with our camera as we stay at Old Hu's Farm Life Inn.

Key Vocabulary

响当当

xiǎngdāngdāng

to be well known

企业家

qǐyèjiā

entrepreneur

不敢当

bù gǎndāng

to not dare to say, I'm flattered

据

jù

according to

经营

jīngyíng

to run a business

生活所迫

shēnghuósuǒpò

life makes one do all kinds of things

上有老下有小

shàngyǒulǎoxiàyǒuxiǎo

to have both young and old people

那口子

nàkǒuzi

wife

功劳

gōngláo

contribution

农家乐

nóngjiālè

farm life inn

捉

zhuō

to catch, grab

螃蟹

pángxiè

crab

油菜花

yóucàihuā

rapeseed flower

呆

dāi

to stay

腻

nì

tired of something

向往

xiàngwǎng

to yearn for

体验

tǐyàn

to personally experience

开发

kāifā

to start

摘

zhāi

to pick

跟随

gēnsuí

with

镜头

jìngtóu

lens

Supplementary Vocabulary

方式

fāngshì

way, method

逼迫

bīpò

to compel

渴望

kěwàng

to long for

主持人

zhǔchírén

host

苍蝇

cāngying

fly

心理准备

xǐnlǐzhǔnbèi

mental preparation

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2013 Praxis Language Ltd.
