
Upper-Intermediate - The Courses of a French Dinner

Upper-Intermediate - The Courses of a French Dinner

(D2504)

A:

姥姥，您难得进城，我带你去西餐厅吃西餐。

lǎolao, nín nándé jìn chéng, wǒ dài nǐ qù xīcāntīng chī xīcān.

Grandma, you rarely go into the city. I will take you to a Western restaurant to eat Western-style food.

B:

这孩子真孝顺。我还从没吃过西餐呢。想想要耍大刀耍耙子地吃饭，那真是吓人！还是我们中国人秀气，一手拿双筷子，一手端碗。

zhè háizi zhēn xiàoshùn. wǒ hái cóngméi chīguò xīcān ne. xiǎngxiang yào shuǎ dàdāo shuǎ pázi de chīfàn, nà zhēn shì xiàrén! háishì wǒmen Zhōngguórén xiùqi, yīshǒu ná shuāng kuàizi, yīshǒu duān wǎn.

You are such a dutiful child. I have never eaten Western-style food before. It's frightening to think of wielding a big sword and a rake to eat dinner. It's us Chinese that are the refined ones. In one hand we take chopsticks and in the other we hold a bowl.

A:

姥姥，瞧您说的，那是刀叉，没你想得那么夸张。

lǎolao, qiáo nín shuō de, nà shì dāochā, méi nǐ xiǎng de nàme kuāzhāng.

Grandma, what are you talking about? It's a knife and fork. It's not as over the top as what you think.

B:

那贵不贵啊？这么高大上的地方，我不想你浪费钱。

nà guì bùguì ā? zhème gāodàshàng de dìfang, wǒ bù xiǎng nǐ làngfèi qián.

Then is it expensive? It's such a "high end,luxury and classy" place. I don't want you to waste your money.

A:

哈哈，高大上您也知道啊。姥姥你可真是潮人啊。没事，咱不差钱，吃得起。

hāhā, gāodàshàng nín yě zhīdào ā. lǎolao nǐ kě zhēn shì cháorén ā. méishì, zá bùchàqián, chī de qǐ.

Haha. You know the saying "high end,luxury and classy" too. Grandma, you are so hip. It's no problem. We are not short of money. We can afford to eat there.

B:

听说吃西餐要讲究什么顺序，别我到了那儿，像刘姥姥进大观园一样，让别人笑话。

tīngshuō chī xīcān yào jiǎngjiu shénme shùnxù, bié wǒ dào le nàr, xiàng Liúlǎolaojìndàguānyuán yīyàng, ràng biérén xiàohuà.

I have heard that when you are eating western food you need to pay attention to the order. I don't want to get there and be like Grandma Liu, who was laughed at in the Grand View Garden.

A:

那我来简单介绍一下。西餐的第一道菜是头盘，就是开胃菜，常见的有沙拉，鱼子酱、鹅肝酱熏鲑鱼、焗蜗牛什么的。

nà wǒ lái jiǎndān jièshào yīxià. xīcān de dì yī dào cài shì tóupán, jiùshì kāiwèicài, chángjiàn de yǒu shālā, yúzǐjiàng、 égānjiàng xūnguīyú、 júwōniú shénmede.

Then I will brief you on it. The first course is a starter, that is an appetizer. Common ones are salad, caviar, foie gras, smoked salmon, escargot, etc.

B:

哦，是不是就相当于我们中国人吃的冷菜？

ò, shì bushì jiù xiāngdāng yú wǒmen Zhōngguórén chī de lěngcài?

Oh, isn't that equivalent to the cold dishes that we Chinese eat?

A:

差不多，不过西餐的头盘有冷头盘和热头盘之分，所以也可以是热菜。西餐的第二道菜是汤。

chàbuduō, bùguò xīcān de tóupán yǒu lěng tóupán hé rè tóupán zhī fēn, suǒyǐ yě kěyǐ shì rècài. xīcān de dì èr dào cài shì tāng.

About like that. But western-style starters are separated into cold and hot starters, so there also can be hot dishes. The second course is soup.

B:

啊，这么快就喝汤啦？咱中国餐馆都是最后才上汤。

ā, zhème kuài jiù hē tāng la? zá Zhōngguó cānguǎn dōu shì zuìhòu cái shàng tāng.

Oh, they eat soup so soon? In our Chinese restaurants, they serve the soup last.

A:

是的，其实汤早点喝更好，润肠暖胃。那接下来呢，就上主菜，一般那是肉或者鱼。之后就上配菜，一般是沙拉。然后还有一道甜品，蛋糕啊，水果啊，冰激凌啊之类的。最后一道是上饮料，咖啡或者茶。

shì de, qíshí tāng zǎodiǎn hē gèng hǎo, rùnchángnuǎnwèi. nà jiēxiàlái ne, jiù shàng zhǔcài, yībān nà shì ròu huòzhě yú. zhīhòu jiù shàng pèicài, yībān shì shālā. ránhòu háiyǒu yī dào tiánpǐn, dàngāo ā, shuǐguǒ ā, bīngjīlíng ā zhīlèi de. zuìhòu yī dào shì shàng yǐnliào, kāfēi huòzhě chá.

That's right. It's actually better to eat the soup earlier, because it lubricates the intestines and warms up the stomach. Then next served is the main dish. Generally it is meat or fish. And then a side dish is served, usually salad. Afterwards, there is also a dessert like cake, fruit, ice cream, and things like that. The last course is a beverage, like coffee or tea.

B:

这么多，外国人吃个饭还真折腾！

zhème duō, wàiguórén chī gè fàn hái zhēn zhēteng!

That many! It is really torturous for foreigners to eat a meal !

Key Vocabulary

姥姥

lǎolao

maternal grandmother

孝顺

xiàoshùn

to show filial obedience and respect, dutiful

耙子

pázi

rake

秀气

xiùqi

delicate, refined

夸张

kuāzhāng

exaggerated

高大上

gāodàshàng

high-end,luxury and classy

潮人

cháorén

hipster, trendsetter

讲究

jiǎngjiu

to pay attention to, be particular about

刘姥姥进大观园

Liúlǎolaojìndàguānyuán

Grandma Liu entering the Grand View Garden

润肠暖胃

rùnchángnuǎnwèi

lubricates the intestines and warms the stomach

主菜

zhǔcài

main course

配菜

pèicài

side dish

折腾

zhēteng

torturous, painful, agonizing

Supplementary Vocabulary

乡下

xiāngxiá

countryside, village

百善孝为先

bǎishànxiàowéixiān

of all virtues filial piety is most important

高端

gāoduān

high-end

大气

dàqì

grand

上档次

shàngdǎngcì

high-grade, first class

高雅

gāoyǎ

refined, elegant

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2014 ChinesePod Ltd.
