
Upper-Intermediate - Patience for Doctors and Patients

Upper-Intermediate - Patience for Doctors and Patients

(D2407)

A:

李晓的父亲刚住院5天就突然去世了。李晓由于不满意医院的解释，打了医生，导致一位医生左眼失明。我们就这件事采访了医院和病人家属。

Lǐxiǎo de fùqīn gāng zhùyuàn wǔ tiān jiù tūrán qùshì le. Lǐxiǎo yóuyú bù mǎnyì yīyuàn de jiěshì, dǎ le yīshēng, dǎozhì yī wèi yīshēng zuǒyǎn shīmíng. wǒmen jiù zhè jiàn shì cǎifǎng le yīyuàn hé bìngrén jiāshǔ.

Li Xiao's father recently spent five days in the hospital and suddenly passed away. Because of an unsatisfactory explanation by the hospital, Li Xiao attacked the doctors and blinded one doctor in his left eye. We interviewed the hospital and the patient's family about this incident.

B:

李晓的父亲年龄大了，又爱喝酒，身体比较差。他突然去世，我们也很难受，但医生已经尽力了。

Lǐxiǎo de fùqīn niánlíng dà le, yòu ài hējiǔ, shēntǐ bǐjiào chà. tā tūrán qùshì, wǒmen yě hěn nánshòu, dàn yīshēng yǐjīng jìnlì le.

Li Xiao's father was old. He also loved to drink and his health wasn't very good. We're also very upset that he died suddenly, but the doctors had already done everything they could.

C:

李晓的父亲以前身体一直很好。突然去世，医院没有说清楚原因，这让我们怎么接受。李晓这才打了医生，他也很后悔。

Lǐxiǎo de fùqīn yǐqián shēntǐ yīzhí hěn hǎo. tūrán qùshì, yīyuàn méiyǒu shuō qīngchu yuányīn, zhè ràng wǒmen zěnme jiēshòu. Lǐxiǎo zhè cái dǎ le yīshēng, tā yě hěn hòuhuǐ.

Li Xiao's father's health was fine before. The hospital never gave a clear reason for why he died suddenly. How  can we accept this? Li Xiao really regrets that this caused him to attack the doctors.

A:

这样的医患纠纷，已经不是第一次了。我们采访了卫生局局长，他也十分痛心。

zhèyàng de yīhuàn jiūfēn, yǐjīng bùshì dìyīcì le. wǒmen cǎifǎng le wèishēngjú júzhǎng, tā yě shífēn tòngxīn.

This isn't the first time that this kind of dispute between doctors and patients has happened. We interviewed the Director of the Public Health Bureau and he was also deeply saddened.

D:

我认为现在医患纠纷最大的问题是医生和病人的沟通不够。一方面，有时医生解释不清病情，或者病人家属不能理解。另一方面，有些病人认为来到医院就一定能康复，对医生的期望太高。所以，医护人员应该尽力医治病人，更要积极有效地跟病人家属沟通。

wǒ rènwéi xiànzài yīhuàn jiūfēn zuìdà de wèntí shì yīshēng hé bìngrén de gōutōng bùgòu. yī fāngmiàn, yǒushí yīshēng jiěshì bùqīng bìngqíng, huò zhě bìngrén jiāshǔ bùnéng lǐjiě. lìng yī fāngmiàn, yǒuxiē bìngrén rènwéi láidào yīyuàn jiù yīdìng néng kāngfù, duì yīshēng de qīwàng tài gāo. suǒyǐ, yīhù rényuán yīnggāi jìnlì yīzhì bìngrén, gèng yào jījí yǒuxiào de gēn bìngrén jiāshǔ gōutōng.

I think that the greatest problem in disputes between doctors and patients is that doctors and patients don't communicate enough. On one hand, some doctors don't explain the illnesses clearly, or the relatives of the patient aren't able to understand. On the other hand, some patients think that by going to the hospital they will definitely recover. Their expectations of doctors are too high. So, medical personnel should do all they can to give a patient medical treatment, as well as proactively communicate with patients' families.

A:

打医生并不能解决问题。我也希望病人家属以后在这样的事上能冷静一点。如果医生是这么危险的工作，以后还有谁愿意做医生呢。

dǎ yīshēng bìngbù néng jiějué wèntí. wǒ yě xīwàng bìngrén jiāshǔ yǐhòu zài zhèyàng de shì shàng néng lěngjìng yīdiǎn. rúguǒ yīshēng shì zhème wēixiǎn de gōngzuò, yǐhòu háiyǒu shéi yuànyì zuò yīshēng ne.

Attacking doctors won't resolve the problem. I hope that in the future patients' families can be more calm in these situations. If being a doctor is such a hazardous job, who will want to become a doctor in the future?

Key Vocabulary

去世

qùshì

to pass away

导致

dǎozhì

to result in

失明

shīmíng

to lose sight (in an eye), go blind

就

jiù

with regard to

采访

cǎifǎng

to interview

家属

jiāshǔ

family member

难受

nánshòu

to be upset, saddened

尽力

jìnlì

to do the utmost

后悔

hòuhuǐ

to regret

医患

yīhuàn

doctors and patients

纠纷

jiūfēn

dispute

卫生局

wèishēngjú

Public Health Bureau

局长

júzhǎng

Director (of a government bureau)

痛心

tòngxīn

saddened

沟通

gōutōng

communication

康复

kāngfù

to recover

期望

qīwàng

to hope

医护

yīhù

doctors and nurses, medical

人员

rényuán

staff

医治

yīzhì

to cure

积极

jījí

positive

有效

yǒuxiào

effective

冷静

lěngjìng

to calm down

Supplementary Vocabulary

记者

jìzhě

journalist, reporter

患者

huànzhě

patient

官员

guānyuán

government offical

心脏

xīnzàng

heart

恢复

huīfù

to recover

效率

xiàolǜ

efficiency

总称

zǒngchēng

general term

控制

kòngzhì

to control

情绪

qíngxù

feeling, emotion

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2014 ChinesePod Ltd.
