
Upper-Intermediate - The Legend of the White Snake (Part 2)

Upper-Intermediate - The Legend of the White Snake (Part 2)

(D2153)

白素贞来还雨伞，她心里突然有一种非常特别的感觉。她原来想嫁给许仙就是为了报恩，但现在觉得不只是报恩。也许这种感觉就是“爱”吧。许仙也是第一次爱上一个姑娘，他紧张得话都说不出来。

Bái Sùzhēn lái huán yǔsǎn, tā xīnli tūrán yǒu yīzhǒng fēicháng tèbié de gǎnjué. tā yuánlái xiǎng jiàgěi Xǔ Xiān jiùshì wèile bào ēn, dàn xiànzài juéde bù zhǐshì bào ēn. yěxǔ zhèzhǒng gǎnjué jiùshì" ài” ba. Xǔ Xiān yě shì dì yī cì àishàng yī gè gūniang, tā jǐnzhāng de huà dōu shuō bu chūlai.

Bai Suzhen came to return the umbrella, and her heart was suddenly filled with a strange emotion. Originally, she wanted to marry Xu Xian in order to repay him, but now she felt it wasn't only for the sake of paying him back. Perhaps this kind of emotion could be called “love”. Xu Xian also felt love for the girl for the first time. He felt so nervous that he was unable to speak.

雨伞是他们的大媒人，白素贞和许仙开始恋爱了。许仙父母双亡，只有姐姐姐夫。姐姐姐夫看到许仙交了这么漂亮的女朋友，也非常高兴。由姐姐姐夫做主，他们很快结婚了。

yǔsǎn shì tāmen de dà méirén, Bái Sùzhēn hé Xǔ Xiān kāishǐ liàn\\\'ài le. Xǔ Xiān fùmǔshuāngwáng, zhǐyǒu jiějie jiěfu. jiějie jiěfu kàndào Xǔ Xiān jiāo le zhème piàoliang de nǚpéngyou, yě fēicháng gāoxìng. yóu jiějie jiěfu zuòzhǔ, tāmen hěn kuài jiéhūn le.

The umbrella was their matchmaker, and Bai Suzhen and Xu Xian began to fall in love. Xu Xian's father and mother were both deceased. There was only his older sister and her husband. When his older sister and her husband saw that Xu Xian had found such a beautiful girlfriend, they were also extremely happy. His older sister and her husband decided they should be married soon.

婚后夫妻二人开了一家诊所，许仙医术高明，白素贞也经常悄悄施法术救人。他们很恩爱，生活幸福，生意也非常好。

hūnhòu fūqī èr rén kāi le yī jiā zhěnsuǒ, Xǔ Xiān yīshù gāomíng, Bái Sùzhēn yě jīngcháng qiāoqiāo shī fǎshù jiùrén. tāmen hěn ēn ài, shēnghuó xìngfú, shēngyì yě fēicháng hǎo.

After they were married, the newlyweds opened a clinic. Xu Xian's medical skill was astounding, and Bai Suzhen often secretly used her magic to save lives. They were passionately in love, their lives were blessed, and business was excellent.

然而好景不长，一个名叫法海的法师发现有蛇妖偷偷跑到人间，并嫁给了人类。他绝不能允许这样的事情发生，就马上去追查。结果法海还发现这个蛇妖就是几百年前偷了自己仙丹的那个蛇妖。因为白素贞偷了仙丹，法海多修炼了几百年才有了今天的法术。法海发誓，一定要收服这个蛇妖！

ránér hǎojǐngbùcháng, yī gè míngjiào Fǎ Hǎi de fǎshī fāxiàn yǒu shéyāo tōutōu pǎodào rénjiān, bìng jiàgěi le rénlèi. tā jué bù néng yǔnxǔ zhèyàng de shìqing fāshēng, jiù mǎshàng qù zhuīchá. jiéguǒ Fǎ Hǎi hái fāxiàn zhè ge shéyāo jiùshì jǐbǎinián qián tōu le zìjǐ xiāndān de nàge shéyāo. yīnwèi Bái Sùzhēn tōu le xiāndān, FǎHǎi duō xiūliàn le jǐ bǎi nián cái yǒu le jīntiān de fǎshù. Fǎ Hǎi fāshì, yīdìng yào shōufú zhè ge shéyāo!

However, good times don't last long. A priest named Fa Hai discovered that a snake spirit had found its way into the human world and married a human. He refused to allow this kind of thing to happen, so he quickly went to investigate. In the end, Fa Hai discovered that this snake spirit was the same snake spirit that had stolen his pill of life hundreds of years ago. Because Bai Suzhen had stolen his pill of life, Fa Hai had to practice spiritual enlightenment for another several hundred years to obtain his current magic. Fa Hai swore an oath to take revenge against this snake spirit.

为了报仇，法海找到许仙，告诉他白素贞是蛇妖。许仙死活不信自己温柔漂亮的老婆会是蛇妖。于是法海出了个主意，端午节家家都要喝雄黄酒，到时候让白素贞喝一些，一切就都明白了。

wèile bàochóu, Fǎ Hǎi zhǎodào Xǔ Xiān, gàosu tā Bái Sùzhēn shì shéyāo. Xǔ Xiān sǐhuó bùxìn zìjǐ wēnróu piàoliang de lǎopó huì shì shéyāo. yúshì Fǎ Hǎi chū le gè zhǔyi, Duānwǔjié jiājiā dōuyào hē xiónghuángjiǔ, dào shíhou ràng Bái Sùzhēn hē yīxiē, yīqiè jiù dōu míngbai le.

In order to take his revenge, Fa Hai found Xu Xian and told him that Bai Suzhen was a snake spirit. Xu Xian simply couldn't believe that his beautiful wife was a snake spirit. So Fa Hai came up with an idea. During Dragon Boat Festival, everyone would be drinking yellow wine. At that time he would make Bai Suzhen drink some, and everything would be clear.

Key Vocabulary

报恩

bào ēn

to repay a debt to someone

说不出来

shuō bu chūlai

to be unable to speak

媒人

méirén

matchmaker

父母双亡

fùmǔshuāngwáng

orphaned

由……做主

yóu......zuòzhǔ

to be responsible

诊所

zhěnsuǒ

clinic

医术

yīshù

medical skill

高明

gāomíng

clever, sophisticated

施

shī

to use (magic)

法术

fǎshù

magic

恩爱

ēn ài

loving

然而

ránér

however

好景不长

hǎojǐngbùcháng

the good times don't last long

法师

fǎshī

Taoist priest

蛇妖

shéyāo

snake spirit

追查

zhuīchá

to investigate

仙丹

xiāndān

pill of life

修炼

xiūliàn

to practice asceticism and spiritual refinement

收服

shōufú

to take revenge

死活

sǐhuó

simply

端午节

Duānwǔjié

Dragon Boat Festival

雄黄酒

xiónghuángjiǔ

yellow rice wine

Supplementary Vocabulary

报答

bàodá

to repay

恩情

ēnqíng

compassion, love

感恩

gǎnēn

thankfulness

持续

chíxù

to go on, persist

死亡

sǐwáng

to die

矿物质

kuàngwùzhì

mineral

神仙

shénxiān

spirit, god

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2013 Praxis Language Ltd.
