
Upper-Intermediate - The Lure of Being Smuggled Abroad

Upper-Intermediate - The Lure of Being Smuggled Abroad

(D2546)

A:

你听说过福建有个“偷渡村”吗？那里有很悠久的移民史，从60年代以后，那里有很多人纷纷偷渡去美国打工，所以那个地区的华侨数量多得惊人。

nǐ tīngshuō guò fújiàn yǒu gè" tōudù cūn” ma? nàlǐ yǒu hěn yōujiǔ de yímínshǐ, cóng liùshí niándài yǐhòu, nàlǐ yǒu hěnduō rén fēnfēn tōudù qù měiguó dǎgōng, suǒyǐ nàge dìqū de huáqiáo shùliàng duō de jīngrén.

Do you know that Fujian has a whole village dedicated to people smuggling? There is a long history of emigration from the village, as from the 1960s onwards, batch after batch of people have been smuggled to America to work, resulting in a shocking number of people there who hold American passports.

B:

为什么要偷渡啊？多危险啊，保不准就在途中命丧黄泉了。

wèishénme yào tōudù a? duō wēixiǎn a, bǎobùzhǔn jiù zài túzhōng mìngsànghuángquán le.

Why do people want to stow away? It’s pretty dangerous and unless you’re careful, you’ll go to Davy Jones’ locker on the way.

A:

嗯，很多偷渡者都有很坎坷的经历，一些人被警察逮住，一些人在多地辗转，也有很多人因偷渡而丧命。而偷渡成功的，一般也要过二三十年才能获得绿卡。不过，他们这么做都是为了生计啊。

ng4, hěnduō tōudùzhě dōu yǒu hěn kǎnkě de jīnglì, yīxiē rén bèi jǐngchá dǎizhù, yīxiē rén zài duō dì zhǎnzhuǎn, yě yǒu hěnduō rén yīn tōudù ér sàngmìng. ér tōudù chénggōng de, yībān yě yào guò èrsānshí nián cáinéng huòdé lǜkǎ. bùguò, tāmen zhème zuò dōu shì wèile shēngjì a.

Yeah, people who get smuggled usually have quite a bumpy ride, some are arrested by police, some get passed through a string of different places, and lots of them lose their lives. And those who arrive at their destination without a hitch have to wait 20-30 years before they can get a green card. But they do all this for the chance of a better life.

B:

想想也是，其实和外地人去大城市打工是一个初衷，只是那些人是通过偷渡去“洋打工”了。

xiǎngxiang yěshì, qíshí hé wàidìrén qù dàchéngshì dǎgōng shì yī gè chūzhōng, zhǐshì nàxiē rén shì tōngguò tōudù qù" yángdǎgōng” le.

Thinking about it, you’re right, it’s like the aspirations migrant workers have when they take jobs in cities away from home, it’s just that these people have to be smuggled into the West to work.

A:

早些年那地方的农民就算一年到头辛苦种田，也还是过着非常穷苦的生活。虽然成功偷渡的人在海外的工资也很微薄，但是换算成人民币就很可观了，他们省吃俭用把赚的外汇寄回老家，让家人过上比较好的物质生活。

zǎo xiē nián nà dìfang de nóngmín jiùsuàn yī nián dào tóu xīnkǔ zhòngtián, yě háishì guò zhe fēicháng qióngkǔ de shēnghuó. suīrán chénggōng tōudù de rén zài hǎiwài de gōngzī yě hěn wēibó, dànshì huànsuàn chéng rénmínbì jiù hěn kěguān le, tāmen shěngchījiǎnyòng bǎ zhuàn de wàihuì jì huí lǎojiā, ràng jiārén guòshang bǐjiào hǎo de wùzhì shēnghuó.

Before, even though peasants in the village worked hard on the land the year through, they still lived incredibly impoverished lives. Although the wages of those who were successfully smuggled abroad were meager, they were equivalent to quite a considerable sum in renminbi, and they often lived frugally, saving up money to send back home, allowing their families to enjoy a better quality of life.

B:

不过最可怜的还是他们的孩子啊，成为“洋留守儿童”，长年见不到自己的爸爸或是妈妈。

bùguò zuì kělián de háishì tāmen de háizi a, chéngwéi" yángliúshǒuértóng”, chángnián jiànbudào zìjǐ de bàba huòshì māma.

But the most pitiful are their children, they become the “left-behind children,” and don’t see their father or mother for many years.

A:

是很可怜，不过这些年，那里很多人都通过亲属移民的方式去海外和早年偷渡的亲人团聚。

shì hěn kělián, bùguò zhèxiēnián, nàlǐ hěnduō rén dōu tōngguò qīnshǔyímín de fāngshì qù hǎiwài hé zǎonián tōudù de qīnrén tuánjù.

Yes, it’s a pity, but more recently, many people there have emigrated through their relations and been reunited with their family members who stowed away many years before.

B:

这也算是不错的结局啊。现在我能理解朝鲜人偷渡到中国的行为了。

zhè yě suànshì bùcuò de jiéjú a. xiànzài wǒ néng lǐjiě cháoxiǎn rén tōudù dào zhōngguó de xíngwéi le.

It’s not a bad end to the story I guess. Now I understand why North Koreans sneak over the border into China.

Key Vocabulary

偷渡

tōudù

people smuggling, to stow away, to border hop

悠久

yōujiǔ

established

移民史

yímínshǐ

history of immigration

纷纷

fēnfēn

one after the other

华侨

huáqiáo

overseas Chinese

惊人

jīngrén

astonishing

保不准

bǎobùzhǔn

be unable to guarantee

命丧黄泉

mìngsànghuángquán

to be killed, to lose one’s life

偷渡者

tōudùzhě

illegal immigrant, border hoppers, stowaways

坎坷

kǎnkě

bumpy, rough

逮住

dǎizhù

to capture

辗转

zhǎnzhuǎn

twist and turns, to pass through

丧命

sàngmìng

to lose one’s life

绿卡

lǜkǎ

residence permit

生计

shēngjì

livelihood

初衷

chūzhōng

original intention, aspiration

洋打工

yángdǎgōng

migrant worker

穷苦

qióngkǔ

impoverished

微薄

wēibó

meager

换算

huànsuàn

convert to, to be equivalent to

可观

kěguān

considerable

省吃俭用

shěngchījiǎnyòng

to live frugally

外汇

wàihuì

foreign currency

物质

wùzhì

material

洋留守儿童

yángliúshǒuértóng

left-behind children of migrants

亲属移民

qīnshǔyímín

emigration through a family member

团聚

tuánjù

to reunite

结局

jiéjú

conclusion

Supplementary Vocabulary

接壤

jiērǎng

to border

边境

biānjìng

frontier,border

精神生活

jīngshénshēnghuó

spiritual life

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2014 ChinesePod Ltd.
