
Upper-Intermediate - Career Guidance

Upper-Intermediate - Career Guidance

(D2487)

A:

我想辞职了。

wǒ xiǎng cízhí le.

I want to hand in my resignation.

B:

什么？怎么突然要辞职？

shénme? zěnme tūrán yào cízhí?

What? How come you want to resign all of a sudden?

A:

哎，月薪那么低。再说，工作环境又不好，每天做的还都是一些鸡毛蒜皮的小事，一点成就感也没有。这离我的预期差距也太大了。

āi, yuèxīn nàme dī. zàishuō, gōngzuò huánjìng yòu bù hǎo, měitiān zuò de hái dōu shì yīxiē jīmáosuànpí de xiǎoshì, yīdiǎn chéngjiùgǎn yě méiyǒu. zhè lí wǒde yùqī chājù yě tài dà le.

Why, the monthly income is so low. Besides, the work environment is also not good. Everyday I just do insignificant little jobs and there is no sense of accomplishment. This is too far from what I expected.

B:

现在哪有事事如意的工作呢？你不要“眼高手低”了。

xiànzài nǎ yǒu shìshìrúyì de gōngzuò ne? nǐ bùyào" yǎngāoshǒudī” le.

Nowadays, where can you find work that is exactly what you wish for? You shouldn't have high standards that your abilities can't match.

A:

关键是我觉得自我价值没有得到体现，而且现在身边的同事都是“关系户”，也不知道猴年马月才能轮到我升职呢。

guānjiàn shì wǒ juéde zìwǒjiàzhí méiyǒu dédào tǐxiàn, érqiě xiànzài shēnbiān de tóngshì dōu shì" guānxihù”, yě bù zhīdào hóuniánmǎyuè cái néng lún dào wǒ shēngzhí ne.

The key is that I haven't realized my own worth, and now my colleagues around me all have good connections. And I don't know if only in the remote future it will be my turn to get promoted.

B:

好吧，那你想好要换什么样的工作了吗？

hǎo ba, nà nǐ xiǎng hǎo yào huàn shénme yàng de gōngzuò le ma?

Fine. Then have you thought of what kind of job you want to switch to?

A:

你不是在猎头公司里面做吗？人脉肯定比我广，推荐一下？你知道的，我大学专业学的是广告设计，阴差阳错才成了编辑。你能帮我物色一些广告公司吗？

nǐ bùshì zài liètóu gōngsī lǐmiàn zuò ma? rénmài kěndìng bǐ wǒ guǎng, tuījiàn yīxià? nǐ zhīdào de, wǒ dàxué zhuānyè xué de shì guǎnggào shèjì, yīnchāyángcuò cái chéng le biānjí. nǐ néng bāng wǒ wùsè yīxiē guǎnggào gōngsī ma?

Aren't you working in a recruitment firm? Your connections must be more extensive than mine. Could you give a recommendation? You know that my major in university was advertising design. It was just a result of a strange series of circumstances that I became an editor. Can you help me to look for some advertising companies?

B:

有点难。知名的广告公司门槛儿高，没什么名气的广告公司则提供不了你想要的待遇。

yǒudiǎnr nán. zhīmíng de guǎnggào gōngsī ménkǎn ér gāo, méi shénme míngqì de guǎnggào gōngsī zé tígōng bùliǎo nǐ xiǎng yào de dàiyù.

It's a bit hard. The requirements of well-known advertising companies are high. No reputable advertising company would not be able to provide the compensation that you want.

A:

也是，那你说自己创业怎么样呢？据说广告这个行业门槛儿挺低的，租个房子，买几台电脑就开张了。我手头上正好有十几万可以作为启动资金。

yěshì, nà nǐ shuō zìjǐ chuàngyè zěnmeyàng ne? jùshuō guǎnggào zhège hángyè ménkǎn ér tǐng dī de, zū gè fángzi, mǎi jǐ tái diànnǎo jiù kāizhāng le. wǒ shǒutóu shàng zhènghǎo yǒu shíjǐ wàn kěyǐ zuòwéi qǐdòngzījīn.

It's true. So what do think of me starting a business? It's said that the requirements for the field of advertising are very low. You just need to rent a place, buy a few computers and then you can begin doing business. I happen to have on hand a few hundred thousand that could be initial capital.

B:

创业倒是个好主意。不过你要先找到合伙人，然后还得想办法拉客户，可不是那么容易的，除了耐心，还要有核心竞争力——创意。

chuàngyè dàoshì gè hǎo zhǔyi. bùguò nǐ yào xiān zhǎo dào héhuǒrén, ránhòu hái děi xiǎng bànfǎ lā kèhù, kě bùshì nàme róngyì de, chúle nàixīn, háiyào yǒu héxīn jìngzhēnglì—— chuàngyì.

Starting your own business is actually a good idea. But you need to find a partner, and then you need to think of a way to draw in customers. This isn't very easy; besides patience, you also need the key competitive strength--creativity.

A:

嗯，我知道的。我准备拉老同学一起做，广告是我真心感兴趣的事，我不会轻易放弃的。

ng4, wǒ zhīdào de. wǒ zhǔnbèi lā lǎo tóngxué yīqǐ zuò, guǎnggào shì wǒ zhēnxīn gǎnxìngqù de shì, wǒ bùhuì qīngyì fàngqì de.

Mm, I know. I plan to pull in some old classmates to work with me. Advertising is something I am wholeheartedly interested in, so I won't give it up easily.

B:

嗯，那提前祝你成功！

ng4, nà tíqián zhù nǐ chénggōng!

Mm, then I wish you success in advance!

Key Vocabulary

月薪

yuèxīn

monthly income

鸡毛蒜皮

jīmáosuànpí

trivial matters

成就感

chéngjiùgǎn

sense of accomplishment

事事如意

shìshìrúyì

everything to turn out as you wish

预期

yùqī

expectation, to expect

眼高手低

yǎngāoshǒudī

to have high standards but little ability

关键

guānjiàn

key, crucial

自我价值

zìwǒjiàzhí

self-worth

关系户

guānxihù

good connections

猴年马月

hóuniánmǎyuè

some month of some year, a time that will never come

猎头

liètóu

headhunting, recruiting

人脉

rénmài

connections, network

阴差阳错

yīnchāyángcuò

an error due to a strange series of circumstances

物色

wùsè

to look for, to seek out

门槛

ménkǎn

threshold, requirements

待遇

dàiyù

compensation

启动资金

qǐdòngzījīn

initial or starting capital

合伙人

héhuǒrén

partner

核心

héxīn

core, key

Supplementary Vocabulary

脚踏实地

jiǎotàshídì

to have one's feet firmly planted on the ground, down-to-earth

扩展

tuòzhǎn

to expand

从业

cóngyè

to be employed

代码

dàimǎ

code

项目

xiàngmù

project, item

铁饭碗

tiěfànwǎn

iron rice bowl, a secure job

海底捞

hǎidǐlāo

Sichuan-style hotpot chain

竞争对手

jìngzhēngduìshǒu

rival, competitor

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2014 ChinesePod Ltd.
