
Upper-Intermediate - The Scene of the Accident

Upper-Intermediate - The Scene of the Accident

(D0542)

A:

我开到路口的时候是绿灯，不过我还是减速、打右转向灯。没想到，一辆助动车冲出来。她是直行，速度比较快。我马上刹车，可是还是撞了。我记得撞车的时候她没摔下来，但是等我下车，她就一屁股坐在地上，又哭又闹，说我把她撞伤了。明明是她闯红灯，违反交通规则，还要赖在我身上。我当时转弯的时候速度只有二三十公里，根本不可能撞倒她。

When I drove up to the intersection the light was green, but I still slowed down, and put on my right turn blinker. I never thought an electric bike would come out of nowhere. She was going straight, at a rather high speed. I braked immediately, but I still hit her. I remember when I hit her bike she didn't fall off, but after I got out of my car, she set her butt right on the ground, crying and making a fuss, saying I injured her. She's clearly the one that ran a red light, breaking the law, and now she wants to pin it on me. At the time I was turning, my speed was only 20 or 30 kilometers per hour. There's no way I could have knocked her over.

Wǒ kāi dào lùkǒu de shíhou shì lǜdēng, bùguò wǒ háishi jiǎnsù, dǎ yòu zhuǎnxiàngdēng. Méi xiǎngdào, yī liàng zhùdòngchē chōng chūlai. Tā shì zhíxíng, sùdù bǐjiào kuài. Wǒ mǎshàng shāchē, kěshì háishi zhuàng le. Wǒ jìde zhuàngchē de shíhou tā méi shuāi xiàlai, dànshì děng wǒ xiàchē, tā jiù yī pìgu zuò zài dì shàng, yòu kū yòu nào, shuō wǒ bǎ tā zhuàng shāng le. Míngmíng shì tā chuǎng hóngdēng, wéifǎn jiāotōng guīzé, hái yào lài zài wǒ shēnshang. Wǒ dāngshí zhuǎnwān de shíhou sùdù zhǐ yǒu èr sān shí gōnglǐ, gēnběn bù kěnéng zhuàngdǎo tā.

B:

我当时骑助动车直行。要穿马路的时候，我仔细看过，绿灯刚变成黄灯，当时在我前面的车都过去了。我也加速冲过去，而且还一直按喇叭。没想到一辆奥迪右转，速度飞快。他根本没减速，反而是加速。我一点都来不及反应，就撞上去了。他这么快的车速，又是这么大的车，我一下子就连人带车摔到地上了。

I was riding my electric bike, going straight. When I needed to cross the street I looked carefully, and the green light had just turned yellow. The cars in front of me all went ahead. I also sped up to go through, and I was continuously blowing my horn. I never imagined an Audi would make a right turn, and at a blinding speed. He never slowed down -- he sped up. I had no time at all to react, and I ran into him. He was going so fast, and it was such a big car, that I was immediately thrown to the ground along with my bike.

Wǒ dāngshí qí zhùdòngchē zhíxíng. Yào chuān mǎlù de shíhou, wǒ zǐxì kàn guo, lǜdēng gāng biànchéng huángdēng, dāngshí zài wǒ qiánmian de chē dōu guòqù le. Wǒ yě jiāsù chōng guòqu, érqiě hái yīzhí àn lǎba. Méi xiǎngdào yī liàng Aòdí yòuzhuǎn, sùdù fēikuài. Tā gēnběn méi jiǎnsù, fǎnér shì jiāsù. Wǒ yīdiǎn dū láibují fǎnyìng, jiù zhuàng shàngqu le. Tā zhème kuài de chēsù, yòu shì zhème dà de chē, wǒ yīxiàzi jiù lián rén dài chē shuāi dào dì shàng le.

C:

出事的时候我就站在路口，看得一清二楚。当时一辆小轿车右转弯，没有按喇叭，“呜”的一下就转了。谁晓得一辆助动车也开过来，速度也很快。他们就撞上了。我第一次看见撞车，心里怕得很。我想这下坏了，可能撞死人了。我赶快跑过去，看到那个骑车的小姑娘摔在地上，还好人没事。开车子的男人后来也下来了。他们两个都开得快，硬碰硬就撞了。

When the accident happened I was standing at the intersection, and I saw everything clear as day. A small car was turning right, didn't blow its horn, and "whoosh" just made a turn. Who knew an electric bike would also drive up, and at a really high speed. They just hit each other. It was the first time I ever saw a car accident. I was scared out of my wits. I thought it must be bad, maybe someone died in the crash. I hurried right over and saw the girl on the bike had been knocked to the ground. Good thing she was OK. Then the man driving the car got out. They were both driving very fast, metal hit metal, and it was a crash.

Chūshì de shíhou wǒ jiù zhànzài lùkǒu, kàn de yīqīngèrchǔ. Dāngshí yī liàng xiǎojiàochē yòu zhuǎnwān, méiyǒu àn lǎba, " wū " de yīxià jiù zhuǎn le. Shéi xiǎode yī liàng zhùdòngchē yě kāi guòlai, sùdù yě hěn kuài. Tāmen jiù zhuàngshàng le. Wǒ dì yī cì kànjiàn zhuàngchē, xīnlǐ pà de hěn. Wǒ xiǎng zhèxià huài le, kěnéng zhuàngsǐ rén le. Wǒ gǎnkuài pǎo guòqu, kàndào nàge qíchē de xiǎo gūniang shuāi zài dì shàng, hái hǎo rén méishì. Kāi chēzi de nánrén hòulái yě xiàlai le. Tāmen liǎng ge dōu kāi de kuài, yìngpèngyìng jiù zhuàng le.

Key Vocabulary

减速

jiǎnsù

to slow down

右转向灯

yòu zhuǎnxiàngdēng

right turn signal

助动车

zhùdòngchē

hybrid bike-motorbike

直行

zhíxíng

to go straight

刹车

shāchē

to brake

撞车

zhuàngchē

to crash (a vehicle)

又哭又闹

yòu kū yòu nào

to cry and cause a commotion

闯红灯

chuǎng hóngdēng

to run a red light

赖

lài

to blame; to deny error

加速

jiāsù

to accelerate

反应

fǎnyìng

to react

连人带车

lián rén dài chē

the person together with the vehicle

一清二楚

yīqīngèrchǔ

to be very clear about something

晓得

xiǎode

to know; to be aware

出事

chūshì

to have an accident

硬碰硬

yìngpèngyìng

to collide with force

Supplementary Vocabulary

油门

yóumén

accelerator; throttle

倒车

dàochē

to back up a vehicle

后视镜

hòushìjìng

rearview mirror

超车

chāochē

to pass a vehicle; to overtake

抢道

qiǎngdào

to cut off another driver

超速

chāosù

to exceed the speed limit

目击者

mùjīzhě

eyewitness
