
Upper-Intermediate - Opening a Factory

Upper-Intermediate - Opening a Factory

(D1137)

A

今天就到这里，散会！小董，你留一下。

jīntiān jiù dào zhèlǐ, sànhuì! Xiǎo Dǒng, nǐ liú yīxià .

That's it for today. Meeting dismissed. Xiao Dong, please stay for a bit.

B

叶总，有什么事吩咐吗？

Yè Zǒng, yǒu shénme shì fēnfù ma?

Manager Ye, do you have any instructions for me?

A

新工厂的事怎么样了？

xīn gōngchǎng de shì zěnmeyàng le?

What's going on with the new factory?

B

几处位置，我都做了实地考察，各有利弊。洋山深水港科技园是保税港，地理位置好，而且对高科技产业有政策支持。不过周边行业配套还不健全，我们的生产成本会很高。

jǐ chù wèizhi, wǒ dōu zuò le shídì kǎochá, gè yǒu lìbì. Yángshān shēnshuǐgǎng kējìyuán shì bǎoshuì gǎng, dìlǐ wèizhì hǎo, érqiě duì gāokējì chǎnyè yǒu zhèngcè zhīchí. bùguò zhōubiān hángyè pèitào hái bù jiànquán, wǒmen de shēngchǎn chéngběn huì hěn gāo.

I've done on-the-spot inspections of a couple of locations. Each has advantages and disadvantages. The Yangshan Deep-water Harbor Technology Park is a bonded port. Its geographic location is good, and it has policies that support the hi-tech industry. But the nearby infrastructure isn't really complete. Our production costs will be really high.

A

嗯，生产成本一定要控制好。

ng4, shēngchǎn chéngběn yīdìng yào kòngzhì hǎo.

Hmm...we definitely need to control the cost of production.

B

我还调查了江苏的工业园区。那里的优势是太阳能产业比较成熟，可以给我们节省不少生产成本。

wǒ hái diàochá le Jiāngsū de gōngyè yuánqū. nàlǐ de yōushì shì tàiyángnéng chǎnyè bǐjiào chéngshú, kěyǐ gěi wǒmen jiéshěng bùshǎo shēngchǎn chéngběn.

I also investigated the Industrial Zone in Jiangsu. The advantage of that place is that the solar energy industry is pretty mature there. It could allow us to save quite a bit of capital.

A

不过我还是比较偏向保税港。很多国际知名厂商都打算在那儿落户，对公司形象和档次的提升很有帮助。

bùguò wǒ háishì bǐjiào piānxiàng bǎoshuì gǎng. hěn duō guójì zhīmíng chǎngshāng dōu dǎsuàn zài nàr luòhù, duì gōngsī xíngxiàng hé dàngcì de tíshēng hěn yǒu bāngzhù.

But I'm still leaning toward the bonded port. A lot of famous international firms are planning to set up there. It will do a lot to improve the company's image and status.

B

这是肯定的！而且那边管理处的服务意识很好，给我们介绍了很多优惠政策和配套服务。相反，江苏的工业园区一去就问我们出资多少。感觉不太好。

zhè shì kěndìng de! érqiě nàbiān guǎnlǐchù de fúwù yìshi hěn hǎo, gěi wǒmen jièshào le hěn duō yōuhuì zhèngcè hé pèitào fúwù. xiāngfǎn, Jiāngsū de gōngyè yuánqū yī qù jiù wèn wǒmen chūzī duōshao. gǎnjué bù tài hǎo.

That's for sure! And the administration's sense of service is very good. They told us about a lot of preferential policies and accompanying services. On the other hand, the Jiangsu Industrial Zone just asked us how much we were investing. It didn't give me a great feeling.

A

我心里有数了。你接下来就和深水港谈吧，要尽可能利用一切优惠条件。

wǒ xīnlǐyǒushù le. nǐ jiē xiàlái jiù hé shēnshuǐgǎng tán  ba, yào jìn kěnéng lìyòng yīqiè yōuhuì tiáojiàn.

I see how it is. Next, talk things over with the bonded port. As much as possible, we want to make use of its favorable conditions.

B

好！如果叶总和董事会有了决定，后边的事情无非就是办理各种手续。向各个部门递交申请，等他们审批。这些具体的事情，交给我就行了。

hǎo! rúguǒ Yè Zǒng hé dǒngshìhuì  yǒu  le juédìng, hòubiān de shìqing wúfēi jiùshì bànlǐ gèzhǒng shǒuxù. xiàng gègè bùmén dìjiāo shēnqǐng, děng tāmen shěnpī. zhèxiē jùtǐ de shìqing, jiāo gěi wǒ jiù xíng le.

OK. If Manager Ye and the board of directors have made a decision, all we have to do is take care of all kinds of procedures. We have to send applications to each department, and wait for their examination and approval. I'll take care of these concrete issues.

A

小董，越来越干练了！新工厂还缺一个关键人物，我会向董事会极力推荐你的。

Xiǎo Dǒng, yuèláiyuè gànliàn  le ! xīn gōngchǎng hái quē yī ge guānjiàn rénwù, wǒ huì xiàng dǒngshìhuì jílì tuījiàn nǐ de.

You're getting better at this all the time, Xiao Dong! The new factory still needs a key person. I'll recommend you to the board of directors with my highest regards.

B

全靠叶总多年的栽培！我还要多向您学习！

quán kào Yè Zǒng duōnián de zāipéi! wǒ hái yào duō xiàng nín xuéxí!

This is all thanks to the years of care and training you gave me! I still need to keep learning from you!

A

好！你忙去吧！

hǎo! nǐ máng qù ba!

Good! Get to work!

Key Vocabulary

吩咐

fēnfù

to instruct

实地

shídì

on-the-spot

考察

kǎochá

to investigate

各有利弊

gè yǒu lìbì

advantages and disadvantages

保税港

bǎoshuì gǎng

bonded port

配套

pèitào

accompanying

健全

jiànquán

perfect

优势

yōushì

advantage

偏向

piānxiàng

inclination

厂商

chǎngshāng

firm

落户

luòhù

to settle down

档次

dàngcì

class

提升

tíshēng

to promote

意识

yìshi

consciousness

优惠

yōuhuì

preferential

出资

chūzī

to contribute capital

心里有数

xīnlǐyǒushù

to know how things are

无非

wúfēi

it's just...

递交

dìjiāo

to send in

审批

shěnpī

examination and approval

干练

gànliàn

experienced, seasoned

栽培

zāipéi

to cultivate, grow

Supplementary Vocabulary

开办工厂

kāibàn gōngchǎng

to set up a factory

建厂

jiànchǎng

to build a factory

选址

xuǎnzhǐ

to choose a location

法律意识

fǎlǜ yìshi

understanding of the law

提交

tíjiāo

to submit
