
Upper-Intermediate - Hospital Visits and Prescription Medication

Upper-Intermediate - Hospital Visits and Prescription Medication

(D1542)

A:

我觉得你这毛病啊，还得去大医院好好看看。

wǒ juéde nǐ zhè máobìng a, hái děi qù dà yīyuàn hǎohāo kàn kan.

I think with a sickness like this you need to go to a big hospital and really have it checked out.

B:

我可不想去大医院。

wǒ kě bù xiǎng qù dà yīyuàn.

I really don't want to go to a big hospital.

A:

怎么了？

zěnmele?

What's wrong?

B:

挂号，看病，付费，拿药，跑得人头晕。

guàhào, kànbìng, fùfèi, ná yào, pǎo de rén tóuyūn.

Take a number, see the doctor, pay the fee, get the medicine - you have to run around until you collapse.

A:

也是。太麻烦了。

yě shì. tài máfan le.

That's true. It's such a pain.

B:

而且人特别多。专家号挂不上，普通门诊也人多得不得了。去一趟医院，没病也累出病来了。

érqiě rén tèbié duō. zhuānjiāhào guà bùshàng, pǔtōng ménzhěn yě rén duō de bùdeliǎo. qù yī tàng yīyuàn, méi bìng yě lèi chū bìng lái le.

Also, there's so many people. It's impossible to register with a specialist and there's tons of people at the normal clinic too. If you weren't sick before, you will be after such an exhausting trip to the hospital.

A:

不过有病还是得早点儿去看。想挂专家号的话，就要先查好挂哪个专家，他星期几坐诊你就星期几去。

bùguò yǒubìng háishì děi zǎo diǎnr qù kàn. xiǎng guà zhuānjiāhào dehuà, jiùyào xiān chá hǎo guà nǎge zhuānjiā, tā xīngqījǐ zuòzhěn nǐ jiù xīngqījǐ qù.

But, when you're sick, you really should go have it checked out sooner than later. If you want to see a specialist, first you have to check which specialist to register with, find out which day they're seeing patients and then go on that day.

B:

听我儿子说可以在网上预约挂号的。

tīng wǒ érzi shuō kěyǐ zài wǎngshàng yùyuē guàhào de.

I heard from my son that you can register online in advance.

A:

嗯。预约了也得早点儿去。挂好号就去看医生。开了药要先去付费。我经常忘记付费就直接跑到拿药窗口了。

ng4. yùyuē le yě děi zǎo diǎnr qù. guà hǎo hào jiù qù kàn yīshēng. kāi le yào yào xiān qù fùfèi. wǒ jīngcháng wàngjì fùfèi jiù zhíjiē pǎodào ná yào chuāngkǒu le.

Yeah. If you reserve it, you still have to get there early. Then, after you register, go see the doctor. Before you can get your prescription, you have to pay the fees. I often forget to pay and go directly to the medicine distribution window.

B:

呵呵，我也是。有的医院中药房和西药房还不在一个地方，很容易拿了西药忘记了中药。

hēhē, wǒ yě shì. yǒude yīyuàn zhōngyàofáng hé xīyàofáng hái bù zài yī gè dìfang, hěn róngyì ná le xīyào wàngjì le zhōngyào.

Heh-heh, me too. At some hospitals the Chinese medicine and Western medicine rooms aren't in the same place. It's easy to get your Western medicine and forget to pick up your Chinese medicine.

A:

我一般先去拿西药，因为中药房等的时间比较长。

wǒ yībān xiān qù ná xīyào, yīnwèi zhōngyàofáng děng de shíjiān bǐjiào cháng.

I usually pick up my Western medicine first because you have to wait quite long to pick up the Chinese medicine.

B:

哎，程序这么复杂，一个人根本没办法去医院看病。

āi, chéngxù zhème fùzá, yī gè rén gēnběn méi bànfǎ qù yīyuàn kànbìng.

Agh, it's such a complicated procedure there's no way a person could go to the hospital alone.

A:

听说有的国家就不是这样。一个人去医院也没问题，付钱，拿药什么的都有护士带着，帮你完成。

tīngshuō yǒude guójiā jiù bù shì zhèyàng. yī gè rén qù yīyuàn yě méi wèntí, fùqián, ná yào shénme de dōu yǒu hùshi dài zhe, bāng nǐ wánchéng.

I heard some countries aren't like that. Going to the hospital alone is no problem. Paying  the fees, picking up your medicine – a nurse comes with you and helps you do everything.

B:

如果做什么都有护士带着，病人和家属就不会急得团团转了。我们的医院啥时候能有那么好的服务啊？

rúguǒ zuò shénme dōu yǒu hùshi dài zhe, bìngrén hé jiāshǔ jiù bù huì jí de tuántuánzhuàn le. wǒmen de yīyuàn shá shíhou néng yǒu nàme hǎo de fúwù a?

If there's a nurse there for everything, patients and their families won't have to run around so anxiously. When will our hospitals be able to have such good service?

A:

会有那一天的。

huì yǒu nà yī tiān de.

That day will come.

B:

呵呵。只恐怕我们是等不到了。

hēhē. zhǐ kǒngpà wǒmen shì děngbùdào le.

Heh-heh, I only fear that we won't be around long enough.

Key Vocabulary

挂号

guàhào

to register

头晕

tóuyūn

to be dizzy

专家号

zhuānjiāhào

expert registration number

普通门诊

pǔtōng ménzhěn

general outpatient clinic

坐诊

zuòzhěn

to be seeing patients

预约

yùyuē

to book in advance

拿药窗口

náyàochuāngkǒu

medicine window

中药房

zhōngyàofáng

traditional Chinese medicine

西药房

xīyàofáng

Western medicine

程序

chéngxù

procedure

根本

gēnběn

at all

护士

hùshi

nurse

家属

jiāshǔ

family member

团团转

tuántuánzhuàn

to turn round and round

恐怕

kǒngpà

'I'm afraid to say...'

等不到

děngbùdào

to be unable to wait until

Supplementary Vocabulary

诊断

zhěnduàn

to diagnose

处方药

chǔfāngyào

prescription medicine

手续

shǒuxù

formalities, procedure

体系

tǐxì

system

开药

kāiyào

to write a prescription

Online Review and Discussion

.   ©2010 Praxis Language Ltd.
