CHAPTER XIX第十九章The library looked tranquil enough as I entered it, and the Sibyl—if Sibyl she were—was seated snugly enough in an easy-chair at the chimney-corner.  She had on a red cloak and a black bonnet: or rather, a broad-brimmed gipsy hat, tied down with a striped handkerchief under her chin.  An extinguished candle stood on the table; she was bending over the fire, and seemed reading in a little black book, like a prayer-book, by the light of the blaze: she muttered the words to herself, as most old women do, while she read; she did not desist immediately on my entrance: it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph.我进门的时候，图书室显得很安静，那女巫——如果她确实是的话，舒适地坐在烟囱角落的安乐椅上。她身披红色斗篷，头戴一顶黑色女帽，或者不如说宽边吉卜赛帽，用一块条子手帕系到了下巴上。桌子上立着一根熄灭了的蜡烛。她俯身向着火炉，借着火光，似乎在读一本祈祷书般的黑色小书，一面读，一面象大多数老妇人那样，口中念念有词。我进门时她并没有立即放下书来，似乎想把一段读完。I stood on the rug and warmed my hands, which were rather cold with sitting at a distance from the drawing-room fire.  I felt now as composed as ever I did in my life: there was nothing indeed in the gipsy’s appearance to trouble one’s calm.  She shut her book and slowly looked up; her hat-brim partially shaded her face, yet I could see, as she raised it, that it was a strange one.  It looked all brown and black: elf-locks bristled out from beneath a white band which passed under her chin, and came half over her cheeks, or rather jaws: her eye confronted me at once, with a bold and direct gaze.我站在地毯上，暖了暖冰冷的手，因为在客厅时我坐得离火炉较远。这时我像往常那么平静，说实在吉卜赛人的外表没有什么会使我感到不安。她合上书，慢慢抬起头来，帽沿遮住了脸的一部份。但是她扬起头来时，我们能看清楚她的面容很古怪。乱发从绕过下巴的白色带子下钻了出来，漫过半个脸颊，或者不如说下颚。她的目光立即与我的相遇，大胆地直视着我。“Well, and you want your fortune told?” she said, in a voice as decided as her glance, as harsh as her features.“噢，你想要算命吗？”她说，那口气像她的目光那样坚定，像她的五官那样严厉。“I don’t care about it, mother; you may please yourself: but I ought to warn you, I have no faith.”“我并不在乎，大妈，随你便吧，不过我得提醒你，我并不相信。”“It’s like your impudence to say so: I expected it of you; I heard it in your step as you crossed the threshold.”“说话这么无礼倒是你的脾性，我料定你会这样，你跨过门槛的时候，我从你的脚步声里就听出来了。”“Did you?  You’ve a quick ear.”“是吗？你的耳朵真尖。”“I have; and a quick eye and a quick brain.”“不错，而且眼睛亮，脑子快。”“You need them all in your trade.”“干你这一行倒是都需要的。”“I do; especially when I’ve customers like you to deal with.  Why don’t you tremble?”“我是需要的，尤其是对付像你这样的顾客的时候。你干嘛不发抖？”“I’m not cold.”“我并不冷。”“Why don’t you turn pale?”“你为什么脸不发白？”“I am not sick.”“我没有病。”“Why don’t you consult my art?”“你为什么不来请教我的技艺？”“I’m not silly.”“我不傻。”The old crone “nichered” a laugh under her bonnet and bandage; she then drew out a short black pipe, and lighting it began to smoke.  Having indulged a while in this sedative, she raised her bent body, took the pipe from her lips, and while gazing steadily at the fire, said very deliberately—这老太婆在帽子和带子底下爆发出了一阵笑声。随后取出一个短短的烟筒，点上烟，开始抽了起来。她在这份镇静剂里沉迷了一会儿后，便直起了弯着的腰，从嘴里取下烟筒，一面呆呆地盯着炉火，一面不慌不忙地说：“You are cold; you are sick; and you are silly.”“你很冷；你有病；你很傻。”“Prove it,” I rejoined.“拿出证据来，”我回答，“I will, in few words.  You are cold, because you are alone: no contact strikes the fire from you that is in you.  You are sick; because the best of feelings, the highest and the sweetest given to man, keeps far away from you.  You are silly, because, suffer as you may, you will not beckon it to approach, nor will you stir one step to meet it where it waits you.”“一定，三言两语就行。你很冷，因为你孤身一人，没有交往，激发不了内心的火花。你病了，因为给予男人的最好、最高尚、最甜蜜的感情，与你无缘。你很傻，因为尽管你很痛苦，你却既不会主动去召唤它靠近你，也不会跨出一步，上它等候你的地方去迎接它。”She again put her short black pipe to her lips, and renewed her smoking with vigour.她再次把那杆黑色的短烟筒放进嘴里，使劲吸了起来。“You might say all that to almost any one who you knew lived as a solitary dependent in a great house.”“凡是你所知道寄居在大房子里的孤独者，你几乎都可以说这样的话。”“I might say it to almost any one: but would it be true of almost any one?”“是几乎对谁都可以这么说，但几乎对谁都适用吗？”“In my circumstances.”“适合处于我这种情况的人。”“Yes; just so, in your circumstances: but find me another precisely placed as you are.”“是的，一点也不错，适合你的情况。不过你倒给我找个处境跟你一模一样的人看看。”“It would be easy to find you thousands.”“You could scarcely find me one.  If you knew it, you are peculiarly situated: very near happiness; yes, within reach of it.  The materials are all prepared; there only wants a movement to combine them.  Chance laid them somewhat apart; let them be once approached and bliss results.”Missing“I don’t understand enigmas.  I never could guess a riddle in my life.”“If you wish me to speak more plainly, show me your palm.”“And I must cross it with silver, I suppose?”“我猜还得在上面放上银币吧？”“To be sure.”“当然。”I gave her a shilling: she put it into an old stocking-foot which she took out of her pocket, and having tied it round and returned it, she told me to hold out my hand.  I did.  She approached her face to the palm, and pored over it without touching it.我给了她一个先令。她从口袋里掏出一只旧长袜，把钱币放进去，用袜子系好，放回原处。她让我伸出手去，我照办了。她把脸贴近我手掌，细细看了起来，但没有触碰它。“It is too fine,” said she.  “I can make nothing of such a hand as that; almost without lines: besides, what is in a palm?  Destiny is not written there.”“太细嫩了，”她说。“这样的手我什么也看不出来，几乎没有皱纹。况且，手掌里会有什么呢？命运又不刻在那儿。”“I believe you,” said I.“我相信你，”我说。“No,” she continued, “it is in the face: on the forehead, about the eyes, in the lines of the mouth.  Kneel, and lift up your head.”“不，”她继续说，“它刻在脸上，在额头，在眼睛周围，在眸子里面，在嘴巴的线条上。跪下来，抬起你的头来。”“Ah! now you are coming to reality,” I said, as I obeyed her.  “I shall begin to put some faith in you presently.”“哦！你现在可回到现实中来了，”我一面按她的话做，一面说。“我马上开始有些相信你了。”I knelt within half a yard of her.  She stirred the fire, so that a ripple of light broke from the disturbed coal: the glare, however, as she sat, only threw her face into deeper shadow: mine, it illumined.我跪在离她半码远的地方。她拨着炉火，在翻动过的煤块中，射出了一轮光圈。因为她坐着，那光焰只会使她的脸蒙上更深的阴影，而我的面容却被照亮了。“I wonder with what feelings you came to me to-night,” she said, when she had examined me a while.  “I wonder what thoughts are busy in your heart during all the hours you sit in yonder room with the fine people flitting before you like shapes in a magic-lantern: just as little sympathetic communion passing between you and them as if they were really mere shadows of human forms, and not the actual substance.”“我不知道你是带着什么样的心情上我这儿来的，”她仔细打量了我一会儿后说。“你在那边房间里，几小时几小时枯坐着，面对一群贵人，象幻灯中的影子那么晃动着，这时你心里会有什么想法呢，这些人与你没有什么情感的交流，好像不过是外表似人的影子，而不是实实在在的人。”“I feel tired often, sleepy sometimes, but seldom sad.”“我常觉得疲倦，有时很困，但很少悲伤。”“Then you have some secret hope to buoy you up and please you with whispers of the future?”“那你有某种秘密的愿望支撑着你，预告着你的将来，使你感到高兴。”“Not I.  The utmost I hope is, to save money enough out of my earnings to set up a school some day in a little house rented by myself.”“我才不这样呢。我的最大愿望，是积攒下足够的钱，将来自己租一间小小的房子，办起学校来。”“A mean nutriment for the spirit to exist on: and sitting in that window-seat (you see I know your habits )—”“养料不足，精神无法依存，况且坐在窗台上（你明白了她知道我的习惯）——”“You have learned them from the servants.”“你是从仆人那儿打听来的。”“Ah! you think yourself sharp.  Well, perhaps I have: to speak truth, I have an acquaintance with one of them, Mrs. Poole—”“呵，你自以为灵敏。好吧——也许我是这样。跟你说实话，我同其中一位——普尔太太——相识。”I started to my feet when I heard the name.一听到这个名字，我立刻惊跳起来。“You have—have you?” thought I; “there is diablerie in the business after all, then!”“你认识她——是吗？”我思忖道，“那么，这里头看来是有魔法了。”“Don’t be alarmed,” continued the strange being; “she’s a safe hand is Mrs. Poole: close and quiet; any one may repose confidence in her.  But, as I was saying: sitting in that window-seat, do you think of nothing but your future school?  Have you no present interest in any of the company who occupy the sofas and chairs before you?  Is there not one face you study? one figure whose movements you follow with at least curiosity?”“别惊慌，”这个怪人继续说，“普尔太太很可靠，嘴巴紧，话不多。谁都可以信赖。不过像我说的，坐在窗台上，你就光想将来办学校，别的什么也不想？那些坐在你面前沙发上和椅子上的人，眼下你对其中哪一位感兴趣吗？你一张面孔都没有仔细端详过吗？至少出于好奇，你连一个人的举动都没有去注意过？”“I like to observe all the faces and all the figures.”“我喜欢观察所有的面孔和所有的身影。”“But do you never single one from the rest—or it may be, two?”“可是你没有撇开其余，光盯住一个人——或者，也许两个？”“I do frequently; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling a tale: it amuses me to watch them.”“我经常这么做，那是在两个人的手势和神色似乎在叙述一个故事的时候，注视他们对我来说是一种乐趣。”“What tale do you like best to hear?”“你最喜欢听什么故事？”“Oh, I have not much choice!  They generally run on the same theme—courtship; and promise to end in the same catastrophe—marriage.”“呵，我没有多大选择的余地：它们一般奏的都是同一主题——求婚，而且都预示着同一灾难性的结局——结婚。”“And do you like that monotonous theme?”“你喜欢这单调的主题吗？”“Positively, I don’t care about it: it is nothing to me.”“我一点也不在乎，这与我无关。”“Nothing to you?  When a lady, young and full of life and health, charming with beauty and endowed with the gifts of rank and fortune, sits and smiles in the eyes of a gentleman you—”“与你无关？有这样一位小姐，她既年轻活泼健康，又美丽动人，而且财富和地位与生俱来，坐在一位绅士的面前，笑容可掬，而你——”“I what?”“我怎么样？”“You know—and perhaps think well of.”“你认识——而且也许还有好感。”“I don’t know the gentlemen here.  I have scarcely interchanged a syllable with one of them; and as to thinking well of them, I consider some respectable, and stately, and middle-aged, and others young, dashing, handsome, and lively: but certainly they are all at liberty to be the recipients of whose smiles they please, without my feeling disposed to consider the transaction of any moment to me.”“我并不了解这儿的先生们。我几乎同谁都没有说过一句话。至于对他们有没有好感，我认为有几位高雅庄重，已到中年；其余几位年青、潇洒、漂亮、活跃。当然他们有充分自由，爱接受谁的笑就接受谁的笑，我不必把感情介入进去，考虑这件事对我是否至关重要。”“You don’t know the gentlemen here?  You have not exchanged a syllable with one of them?  Will you say that of the master of the house!”“你不了解这儿的先生们吗？你没有同谁说过一句话？你对屋里的主人也这么说吗？”“He is not at home.”“他不在家。”“A profound remark!  A most ingenious quibble!  He went to Millcote this morning, and will be back here to-night or to-morrow: does that circumstance exclude him from the list of your acquaintance—blot him, as it were, out of existence?”“讲得多玄妙！多么高明的诡辩：今天早上他上米尔科特去了，要到夜里或者明天早上才回来，难道因为这临时的情况，你就把他排除在熟人之外——仿佛完全抹煞他的存在？”“No; but I can scarcely see what Mr. Rochester has to do with the theme you had introduced.”“不，但我几乎不明白罗切斯特先生与你提出的主题有什么关系。”“I was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen; and of late so many smiles have been shed into Mr. Rochester’s eyes that they overflow like two cups filled above the brim: have you never remarked that?”“我刚才谈到女士们在先生们眼前笑容满面，最近那么多笑容注进了罗切斯特先生的眼里，他的双眼就像两只满得快要溢出来的杯子，你对此从来没有想法吗？”“Mr. Rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests.”“罗切斯特先生有权享受同宾客们交往的乐趣。”“No question about his right: but have you never observed that, of all the tales told here about matrimony, Mr. Rochester has been favoured with the most lively and the most continuous?”“毫无问题他有这权利，可是你没有觉察到吗，这里所议论到的婚姻传闻中，罗切斯特先生有幸被人谈得最起劲，而且人们一直兴趣不减吗？”“The eagerness of a listener quickens the tongue of a narrator.”  I said this rather to myself than to the gipsy, whose strange talk, voice, manner, had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream.  One unexpected sentence came from her lips after another, till I got involved in a web of mystification; and wondered what unseen spirit had been sitting for weeks by my heart watching its workings and taking record of every pulse.“听的人越焦急，说的人越起劲。”我与其说是讲给吉卜赛人听，还不如说在自言自语。这时吉卜赛人奇怪的谈话、噪音和举动己使我进入了一种梦境，意外的话从她嘴里一句接一句吐出来，直至我陷进了一张神秘的网络，怀疑有什么看不见的精灵，几周来一直守在我心坎里，观察着心的运转，记录下了每次搏动。“Eagerness of a listener!” repeated she: “yes; Mr. Rochester has sat by the hour, his ear inclined to the fascinating lips that took such delight in their task of communicating; and Mr. Rochester was so willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given him; you have noticed this?”“听的人越焦急？”她重复了一遍。“不错，此刻罗切斯特先生是坐在那儿，侧耳倾听着那迷人的嘴巴在兴高彩烈地交谈。罗切斯特先生十分愿意接受，并且后来十分感激提供给他的消遣，你注意到这点了吗？”“Grateful!  I cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face.”“感激！我并不记得在他脸上察觉到过感激之情。”“Detecting!  You have analysed, then.  And what did you detect, if not gratitude?”“察觉！你还分析过呢。如果不是感激之情，那你察觉到了什么？”I said nothing.我什么也没有说。“You have seen love: have you not?—and, looking forward, you have seen him married, and beheld his bride happy?”“你看到了爱，不是吗，而且往前一看，你看到他们结了婚，看到了他的新娘快乐吗？”“Humph!  Not exactly.  Your witch’s skill is rather at fault sometimes.”“哼！不完全如此。有时候你的巫技也会出差错。”“What the devil have you seen, then?”“那么你到底看到了什么？”“Never mind: I came here to inquire, not to confess.  Is it known that Mr. Rochester is to be married?”“你别管了，我是来询问，不是来表白的，不是谁都知道罗切斯特先生要结婚了吗？”“Yes; and to the beautiful Miss Ingram.”“是的，同漂亮的英格拉姆小姐。”“Shortly?”“马上？”“Appearances would warrant that conclusion: and, no doubt (though, with an audacity that wants chastising out of you, you seem to question it), they will be a superlatively happy pair.  He must love such a handsome, noble, witty, accomplished lady; and probably she loves him, or, if not his person, at least his purse.  I know she considers the Rochester estate eligible to the last degree; though (God pardon me!) I told her something on that point about an hour ago which made her look wondrous grave: the corners of her mouth fell half an inch.  I would advise her blackaviced suitor to look out: if another comes, with a longer or clearer rent-roll,—he’s dished—”“种种迹象将证实这一结论（虽然你真该挨揍，竟敢大胆提出疑问），毫无疑问，他们会是无比快乐的一对。他一定会喜爱这样一位美丽、高贵、风趣、多才多艺的小姐，而很可能她也爱他，要不如果不是爱他本人，至少爱他的钱包。我知道她认为罗切斯特家的财产是十分合意的（上帝宽恕我），虽然一小时之前我在这事儿上给她透了点风，她听了便沉下了脸，嘴角挂下了半英寸。我会劝她的黑脸求婚者小心为是，要是又来个求婚的人，房租地租的收入更丰，——那他就完蛋——”“But, mother, I did not come to hear Mr. Rochester’s fortune: I came to hear my own; and you have told me nothing of it.”“可是，大妈，我不是来听你替罗切斯特先生算命的，我来听你算我的命，你却一点也没有谈过呢。”，“Your fortune is yet doubtful: when I examined your face, one trait contradicted another.  Chance has meted you a measure of happiness: that I know.  I knew it before I came here this evening.  She has laid it carefully on one side for you.  I saw her do it.  It depends on yourself to stretch out your hand, and take it up: but whether you will do so, is the problem I study.  Kneel again on the rug.”“你的命运还很难确定。我看了你的脸相，各个特征都相互矛盾。命运赐给了你一份幸福，这我知道，是我今晚来这里之前晓得的。她已经小心翼翼地替你把幸福放在一边，我看见她这么干的。现在就看你自己伸手去把它抢起来了，不过你是否愿意这么做，是我要琢磨的问题。你再跪在地毯上吧。”“Don’t keep me long; the fire scorches me.”“别让我跪得太久，火炉热得灼人。”I knelt.  She did not stoop towards me, but only gazed, leaning back in her chair.  She began muttering,—我跪了下来。她没有向我俯下身来，只是紧紧盯着我，随后又靠回到椅子上。她开始咕哝起来：“The flame flickers in the eye; the eye shines like dew; it looks soft and full of feeling; it smiles at my jargon: it is susceptible; impression follows impression through its clear sphere; where it ceases to smile, it is sad; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the lid: that signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness.  It turns from me; it will not suffer further scrutiny; it seems to deny, by a mocking glance, the truth of the discoveries I have already made,—to disown the charge both of sensibility and chagrin: its pride and reserve only confirm me in my opinion.  The eye is favourable.“火焰在眼睛里闪烁，眼睛像露水一样闪光；看上去温柔而充满感情，笑对着我的闲聊，显得非常敏感。清晰的眼球上掠过一个又一个印象，笑容一旦消失，神色便转为忧伤。倦意不知不觉落在眼睑上，露出孤独带来的忧郁。那双眼睛避开了我，受不了细细端详，而且投来讥讽的一瞥，似乎要否认我已经发现的事实——既不承认说它敏感，也不承认说它懊丧，它的自尊与矜持只能证实我的看法，这双眼睛是讨人喜欢的。“As to the mouth, it delights at times in laughter; it is disposed to impart all that the brain conceives; though I daresay it would be silent on much the heart experiences.  Mobile and flexible, it was never intended to be compressed in the eternal silence of solitude: it is a mouth which should speak much and smile often, and have human affection for its interlocutor.  That feature too is propitious.“至于那嘴巴，有时爱笑，希望坦露头脑中的一切想法，但我猜想对不少内心的体验却绝口不提。它口齿伶俐，决不想紧闭双唇，永远安于孤寂沉默。这张嘴爱说爱笑，爱交谈，通人情，这一部份也很吉利。“I see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow; and that brow professes to say,—‘I can live alone, if self-respect, and circumstances require me so to do.  I need not sell my soul to buy bliss.  I have an inward treasure born with me, which can keep me alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld, or offered only at a price I cannot afford to give.’  The forehead declares, ‘Reason sits firm and holds the reins, and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms.  The passions may rage furiously, like true heathens, as they are; and the desires may imagine all sorts of vain things: but judgment shall still have the last word in every argument, and the casting vote in every decision.  Strong wind, earthquake-shock, and fire may pass by: but I shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which interprets the dictates of conscience.’“除了额头，我看不到有碍幸福结局的地方，那个额头表白道，‘我可以孤单地生活，要是自尊心和客观环境需要我这样做的话。我不必出卖灵魂来购得幸福。我有一个天生的内在珍宝，在外界的欢乐都被剥夺，或者欢乐的代价高于我的偿付能力时，它能使我活下去。’额头大声说道，‘理智稳坐不动，紧握缰绳，不让情感挣脱，将自己带入荒芜的深渊。激情会象道地的异教徒那样狂怒地倾泻，欲望会耽于虚无缥渺的幻想，但是判断在每次争执中仍持有决定权，在每一决策中掌握着生死攸关的一票。狂风、地震和水灾虽然都会降临，但我将听从那依然细微的声音的指引，因为是它解释了良心的命令。”“Well said, forehead; your declaration shall be respected.  I have formed my plans—right plans I deem them—and in them I have attended to the claims of conscience, the counsels of reason.  I know how soon youth would fade and bloom perish, if, in the cup of bliss offered, but one dreg of shame, or one flavour of remorse were detected; and I do not want sacrifice, sorrow, dissolution—such is not my taste.  I wish to foster, not to blight—to earn gratitude, not to wring tears of blood—no, nor of brine: my harvest must be in smiles, in endearments, in sweet—That will do.  I think I rave in a kind of exquisite delirium.  I should wish now to protract this moment ad infinitum; but I dare not.  So far I have governed myself thoroughly.  I have acted as I inwardly swore I would act; but further might try me beyond my strength.  Rise, Miss Eyre: leave me; the play is played out’.”说得好，前额，你的宣言将得到尊重。我已经订好了计划——我认为是正确的计划——内中我照应到良心的要求，理智的忠告。我明白在端上来的幸福之杯中，只要发现一块耻辱的沉渣，一丝悔恨之情，青春就会很快逝去，花朵就会立即凋零。而我不要牺牲、悲伤和死亡——这些不合我的口味。我希望培植，不希望摧残——希望赢得感激，而不是拧出血泪来——不，不是泪水；我的收获必须是微笑、抚慰和甜蜜——这样才行。我想我是在美梦中呓语，我真想把眼前这一刻adinfinitum延长，但我不敢。到现在为止，我自我控制得很好，像心里暗暗发誓的那样行动，但是再演下去也许要经受一场非我力所能及的考验。起来，爱小姐，离开我吧，‘戏已经演完了’。”Where was I?  Did I wake or sleep?  Had I been dreaming?  Did I dream still?  The old woman’s voice had changed: her accent, her gesture, and all were familiar to me as my own face in a glass—as the speech of my own tongue.  I got up, but did not go.  I looked; I stirred the fire, and I looked again: but she drew her bonnet and her bandage closer about her face, and again beckoned me to depart.  The flame illuminated her hand stretched out: roused now, and on the alert for discoveries, I at once noticed that hand.  It was no more the withered limb of eld than my own; it was a rounded supple member, with smooth fingers, symmetrically turned; a broad ring flashed on the little finger, and stooping forward, I looked at it, and saw a gem I had seen a hundred times before.  Again I looked at the face; which was no longer turned from me—on the contrary, the bonnet was doffed, the bandage displaced, the head advanced.我在哪儿呢？是醒着还是睡着了？我一直在做梦吗？此刻还在做？这老太婆已换了嗓门。她的口音、她的手势、她的一切，就象镜中我自己的面孔，也象我口中说的话，我都非常熟悉。我立起身来，但并没有走，我瞧了瞧，拨了拨火，再瞧了她一下，但是她把帽子和绷带拉得紧贴在脸上，而且再次摆手让我走。火焰照亮了她伸出的手。这时我已清醒，一心想发现什么，立即注意到了这只手。跟我的手一样，这不是只老年人干枯的手，它丰满柔软，手指光滑而匀称，一个粗大的戒指在小手指上闪闪发光。我弯腰凑过去细瞧了一下，看到了一块我以前见过上百次的宝石。我再次打量了那张脸，这回可没有避开我——相反，帽子脱了，绷带也扯了，脑袋伸向了我。“Well, Jane, do you know me?” asked the familiar voice.“嗨，简，你认识我吗？”那熟悉的口音问。“Only take off the red cloak, sir, and then—”“你只要脱下红色的斗篷，先生，那就——”“But the string is in a knot—help me.”“可是这绳子打了结——帮我一下。”“Break it, sir.”“扯断它，先生。”“There, then—‘Off, ye lendings!’”  And Mr. Rochester stepped out of his disguise.“好吧，那么——”“脱下来，你们这些身外之物！”罗切斯特先生脱去了伪装。“Now, sir, what a strange idea!”“哦，先生，这是个多奇怪的主意！”“But well carried out, eh?  Don’t you think so?”“不过干得很好，嗯？你不这样想吗？”“With the ladies you must have managed well.”“对付女士们，你也许应付得很好。”“But not with you?”“但对你不行？”“You did not act the character of a gipsy with me.”“你并没对我扮演吉卜赛人的角色。”“What character did I act?  My own?”“我演了什么角色啦？我自己吗？”“No; some unaccountable one.  In short, I believe you have been trying to draw me out—or in; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense.  It is scarcely fair, sir.”“不，某个无法理解的人物。总之，我相信你一直要把我的话套出来，——或者把我也扯进去。你一直在胡说八道为的是让我也这样，这很难说是公平的，先生。”“Do you forgive me, Jane?”“你宽恕我吗，简？”“I cannot tell till I have thought it all over.  If, on reflection, I find I have fallen into no great absurdity, I shall try to forgive you; but it was not right.”“我要仔细想想后才能回答。如果经过考虑我觉得自己并没有干出荒唐的事来，那我会努力宽恕你的，不过这样做不对。”“Oh, you have been very correct—very careful, very sensible.”“呵，你刚才一直做得很对——非常谨慎，非常明智。”I reflected, and thought, on the whole, I had.  It was a comfort; but, indeed, I had been on my guard almost from the beginning of the interview.  Something of masquerade I suspected.  I knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not express themselves as this seeming old woman had expressed herself; besides I had noted her feigned voice, her anxiety to conceal her features.  But my mind had been running on Grace Poole—that living enigma, that mystery of mysteries, as I considered her.  I had never thought of Mr. Rochester.我沉思了一下，大体认为自己是这样。那是一种愉快。不过说实在一与他见面我便已存戒心，怀疑是一种假面游戏，我知道吉卜赛人和算命的人的谈吐，不像那个假老太婆。此外，我还注意到了她的假嗓子，注意到了她要遮掩自己面容的焦急心情。可是我脑子里一直想着格雷斯．普尔——那个活着的谜，因此压根儿没有想到罗切斯特先生。“Well,” said he, “what are you musing about?  What does that grave smile signify?”“好吧，”他说，“你呆呆地在想什么呀？那严肃的笑容是什么意思？”“Wonder and self-congratulation, sir.  I have your permission to retire now, I suppose?”“惊讶和庆幸，先生。我想，现在你可以允许我离开了吧？”“No; stay a moment; and tell me what the people in the drawing-room yonder are doing.”“不，再呆一会儿。告诉我那边会客室里的人在干什么？”“Discussing the gipsy, I daresay.”“我想是在议论那个吉卜赛人。”“Sit down!—Let me hear what they said about me.”“坐下，坐下！——讲给我听听他们说我什么啦？”“I had better not stay long, sir; it must be near eleven o’clock.  Oh, are you aware, Mr. Rochester, that a stranger has arrived here since you left this morning?”“我还是不要久待好，先生。准己快十一点了。呵！你可知道，罗切斯特先生，你早晨走后，有位陌生人到了。”“A stranger!—no; who can it be?  I expected no one; is he gone?”“陌生人！——不，会是谁呢？我并没有盼谁来，他走了吗？”“No; he said he had known you long, and that he could take the liberty of installing himself here till you returned.”“没有呢，他说他与你相识很久，可以冒昧地住下等到你回来。”“The devil he did!  Did he give his name?”“见鬼！他可说了姓名？”“His name is Mason, sir; and he comes from the West Indies; from Spanish Town, in Jamaica, I think.”“他的名字叫梅森，先生，他是从西印度群岛来的，我想是牙买加的西班牙城。”Mr. Rochester was standing near me; he had taken my hand, as if to lead me to a chair.  As I spoke he gave my wrist a convulsive grip; the smile on his lips froze: apparently a spasm caught his breath.罗切斯特先生正站在我身旁。他拉住了我的手，仿佛要领我坐到一条椅子上。我一说出口，他便一阵痉挛，紧紧抓住我的手，嘴上的笑容冻结了，显然一阵抽搐使他透不过气来。“Mason!—the West Indies!” he said, in the tone one might fancy a speaking automaton to enounce its single words; “Mason!—the West Indies!” he reiterated; and he went over the syllables three times, growing, in the intervals of speaking, whiter than ashes: he hardly seemed to know what he was doing.“梅森！——西印度群岛！”他说，那口气使人想起一架自动说话机，吐着单个词汇：“梅森！——西印度群岛！”他念念有词，把那几个字重复了三遍，说话的间隙，脸色白加死灰，几乎不知道自己在干什么。“Do you feel ill, sir?” I inquired.“你不舒服，先生？”我问。“Jane, I’ve got a blow; I’ve got a blow, Jane!”  He staggered.“简，我受了打击，——我受了打击，简！”他身子摇摇晃晃。“Oh, lean on me, sir.”“呵！——靠在我身上，先生。”“Jane, you offered me your shoulder once before; let me have it now.”“简，你的肩膀曾支撑过我，现在再支撑一回吧。”“Yes, sir, yes; and my arm.”“好的，先生，好的，还有我的胳膊。”He sat down, and made me sit beside him.  Holding my hand in both his own, he chafed it; gazing on me, at the same time, with the most troubled and dreary look.他坐了下来，让我坐在他旁边，用双手握住我的手，搓了起来，同时黯然神伤地凝视着我。“My little friend!” said he, “I wish I were in a quiet island with only you; and trouble, and danger, and hideous recollections removed from me.”“我的小朋友，”他说，“我真希望呆在一个平静的小岛上，只有你我在一起，烦恼、危险、讨厌的往事都离我们远远的。”“Can I help you, sir?—I’d give my life to serve you.”“我能帮助你吗，先生？——我愿献出生命，为你效劳。”“Jane, if aid is wanted, I’ll seek it at your hands; I promise you that.”“简，要是我需要援手，我会找你帮忙，我答应你。”“Thank you, sir.  Tell me what to do,—I’ll try, at least, to do it.”“谢谢你，先生。告诉我该干什么——至少我会尽力的。”“Fetch me now, Jane, a glass of wine from the dining-room: they will be at supper there; and tell me if Mason is with them, and what he is doing.”“简，替我从餐室里拿杯酒来，他们会都在那里吃晚饭，告诉我梅森是不是同他们在一起，他在干什么？”I went.  I found all the party in the dining-room at supper, as Mr. Rochester had said; they were not seated at table,—the supper was arranged on the sideboard; each had taken what he chose, and they stood about here and there in groups, their plates and glasses in their hands.  Every one seemed in high glee; laughter and conversation were general and animated.  Mr. Mason stood near the fire, talking to Colonel and Mrs. Dent, and appeared as merry as any of them.  I filled a wine-glass (I saw Miss Ingram watch me frowningly as I did so: she thought I was taking a liberty, I daresay), and I returned to the library.我去了。如罗切斯特先生所说，众人都在餐室用晚饭。他们没有围桌而坐，晚餐摆在餐具柜上，各人取了自已爱吃的东西，零零落落地成群站着，手里端了盘子和杯子。大家似乎都兴致勃勃，谈笑风生，气氛十分活跃。梅森先生站在火炉旁，同登特上校和登特太太在交谈，显得和其余的人一样愉快。我斟满酒（我看见英格拉姆小姐皱眉蹙额地看着我，我猜想她认为我太放肆了），回到了图书室。Mr. Rochester’s extreme pallor had disappeared, and he looked once more firm and stern.  He took the glass from my hand.罗切斯特先生极度苍白的脸已经恢复神色，再次显得镇定自若了。他从我手里接过酒杯。“Here is to your health, ministrant spirit!” he said.  He swallowed the contents and returned it to me.  “What are they doing, Jane?”“祝你健康，助人的精灵！”他说着，一口气喝下了酒，把杯子还给我。“他们在干什么呀，简？”“Laughing and talking, sir.”“谈天说笑，先生。”“They don’t look grave and mysterious, as if they had heard something strange?”“他们看上去不像是听到过什么奇闻那般显得严肃和神秘吗！”“Not at all: they are full of jests and gaiety.”“一点也没有——大家都开开玩笑，快快乐乐。”“And Mason?”“梅森呢？”“He was laughing too.”“也在一起说笑。”“If all these people came in a body and spat at me, what would you do, Jane?”“要是这些人抱成一团唾弃我，你会怎么办呢？”“Turn them out of the room, sir, if I could.”“把他们赶出去，先生，要是我能够。”He half smiled.  “But if I were to go to them, and they only looked at me coldly, and whispered sneeringly amongst each other, and then dropped off and left me one by one, what then?  Would you go with them?”他欲笑又止。“如果我上他们那儿去，他们只是冷冷地看着我，彼此还讥嘲地窃窃私语，随后便一个个离去，那怎么办呢？你会同他们一起走吗？”“I rather think not, sir: I should have more pleasure in staying with you.”“我想我不会走，先生。同你在一起我会更愉快。”“To comfort me?”“为了安慰我？”“Yes, sir, to comfort you, as well as I could.”“是的，先生，尽我的力量安慰你。”“And if they laid you under a ban for adhering to me?”“要是他们禁止你跟着我呢？”“I, probably, should know nothing about their ban; and if I did, I should care nothing about it.”“很可能我对他们的禁令一无所知，就是知道我也根本不在乎。”“Then, you could dare censure for my sake?”“那你为了我就不顾别人责难了？”“I could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence; as you, I am sure, do.”“任何一位朋友，如值得我相守，我会全然不顾责难。我深信你就是这样一位朋友。”“Go back now into the room; step quietly up to Mason, and whisper in his ear that Mr. Rochester is come and wishes to see him: show him in here and then leave me.”“回到客厅去吧，轻轻走到梅森身边，悄悄地告诉他罗切斯特先生已经到了，希望见他。把他领到这里来，随后你就走。”“Yes, sir.”“好的，先生。”I did his behest.  The company all stared at me as I passed straight among them.  I sought Mr. Mason, delivered the message, and preceded him from the room: I ushered him into the library, and then I went upstairs.我按他的吩咐办了。宾客们都瞪着眼睛看我从他们中间直穿而过。我找到了梅森先生，传递了信息，走在他前面离开了房间。领他进了图书室后，我便上楼去了。At a late hour, after I had been in bed some time, I heard the visitors repair to their chambers: I distinguished Mr. Rochester’s voice, and heard him say, “This way, Mason; this is your room.”深夜时分，我上床后过了好些时候，我听见客人们才各自回房，也听得出罗切斯特先生的嗓音，只听见他说：“这儿走，梅森，这是你的房间。”He spoke cheerfully: the gay tones set my heart at ease.  I was soon asleep.他高兴地说着话，那欢快的调门儿使我放下心来，我很快就睡着了。CHAPTER XX第二十章I had forgotten to draw my curtain, which I usually did, and also to let down my window-blind.  The consequence was, that when the moon, which was full and bright (for the night was fine), came in her course to that space in the sky opposite my casement, and looked in at me through the unveiled panes, her glorious gaze roused me.  Awaking in the dead of night, I opened my eyes on her disk—silver-white and crystal clear.  It was beautiful, but too solemn; I half rose, and stretched my arm to draw the curtain.平常我是拉好帐幔睡觉的，而那回却忘了，也忘了把百叶窗放下来。结果，一轮皎洁的满月（因为那天夜色很好），沿着自己的轨道，来到我窗户对面的天空，透过一无遮拦的窗玻璃窥视着我，用她那清丽的目光把我唤醒。夜深人静，我张开眼睛，看到了月亮澄净的银白色圆脸。它美丽却过于肃穆。我半欠着身子，伸手去拉帐幔。Good God!  What a cry!天哪！多可怕的叫声！The night—its silence—its rest, was rent in twain by a savage, a sharp, a shrilly sound that ran from end to end of Thornfield Hall.夜晚的宁静和安逸，被响彻桑菲尔德府的一声狂野、刺耳的尖叫打破了。My pulse stopped: my heart stood still; my stretched arm was paralysed.  The cry died, and was not renewed.  Indeed, whatever being uttered that fearful shriek could not soon repeat it: not the widest-winged condor on the Andes could, twice in succession, send out such a yell from the cloud shrouding his eyrie.  The thing delivering such utterance must rest ere it could repeat the effort.我的脉搏停止了，我的心脏不再跳动，我伸出的胳膊僵住了。叫声消失，没有再起。说实在，无论谁发出这样的喊声，那可怕的尖叫无法立即重复一遍，就是安第斯山上长着巨翅的秃鹰，也难以在白云缭绕的高处，这样连叫两声。那发出叫声的东西得缓过气来才有力气再次喊叫。It came out of the third storey; for it passed overhead.  And overhead—yes, in the room just above my chamber-ceiling—I now heard a struggle: a deadly one it seemed from the noise; and a half-smothered voice shouted—这叫声来自三楼，因为正是我头顶上响起来的。在我的头顶——不错，就在我天花板上头的房间里——此刻我听到了一阵挣扎，从响声看似乎是一场你死我活的搏斗，一个几乎透不过气来的声音喊道：“Help! help! help!” three times rapidly.“救命呀！救命呀！救命呀！”连叫了三声。“Will no one come?” it cried; and then, while the staggering and stamping went on wildly, I distinguished through plank and plaster:—“怎么没有人来呀？”这声音喊道。随后，是一阵发疯似的踉跄和跺脚，透过木板和灰泥我听得出来！“Rochester!  Rochester! for God’s sake, come!”“罗切斯特！罗切斯特，看在上帝面上，快来呀？”A chamber-door opened: some one ran, or rushed, along the gallery.  Another step stamped on the flooring above and something fell; and there was silence.一扇房门开了。有人跑过，或者说冲过了走廊。另一个人的脚步踩在头顶的地板上，什么东西跌倒了，随之便是一片沉寂。I had put on some clothes, though horror shook all my limbs; I issued from my apartment.  The sleepers were all aroused: ejaculations, terrified murmurs sounded in every room; door after door unclosed; one looked out and another looked out; the gallery filled.  Gentlemen and ladies alike had quitted their beds; and “Oh! what is it?”—“Who is hurt?”—“What has happened?”—“Fetch a light!”—“Is it fire?”—“Are there robbers?”—“Where shall we run?” was demanded confusedly on all hands.  But for the moonlight they would have been in complete darkness.  They ran to and fro; they crowded together: some sobbed, some stumbled: the confusion was inextricable.尽管我吓得四肢发抖，但还是穿上了几件衣服，走出房间。所有熟睡的人都被惊醒了，每个房间都响起了喊叫声和恐俱的喃喃声。门一扇扇打开了，人一个个探出头来。走廊上站满了人。男宾和女客们都从床上爬起来。“呵，怎么回事？”——“谁伤着了，”——“出了什么事呀？”——“掌灯呀！”——“起火了吗？”——“是不是有窃贼？”—一“我们得往哪儿逃呀？”四面八方响起了七嘴八舌的询问。要不是那月光，众人眼前会一片漆黑。他们来回乱跑，挤成一堆。有人哭泣，有人跌交，顿时乱作一团。“Where the devil is Rochester?” cried Colonel Dent.  “I cannot find him in his bed.”“见鬼，罗切斯特在哪儿？”登特上校叫道。“他床上没有人。”“Here! here!” was shouted in return.  “Be composed, all of you: I’m coming.”“在这儿！在这儿：”一个声音喊着回答。“大家镇静些，我来了。”And the door at the end of the gallery opened, and Mr. Rochester advanced with a candle: he had just descended from the upper storey.  One of the ladies ran to him directly; she seized his arm: it was Miss Ingram.走廊尽头的门开了，罗切斯特先生拿着蜡烛走过来。他刚从搂上下来，一位女士便径直朝他奔去，一把抓住他胳膊。那是英格拉姆小姐。，“What awful event has taken place?” said she.  “Speak! let us know the worst at once!”“出了什么可怕的事了？”她说。“说呵！快让我们知道最坏的情况！”“But don’t pull me down or strangle me,” he replied: for the Misses Eshton were clinging about him now; and the two dowagers, in vast white wrappers, were bearing down on him like ships in full sail.“可别把我拉倒或者勒死呀，”他回答，因为此刻两位埃希顿小姐紧紧抓住他不放，两位遗孀穿着宽大的白色晨衣，像鼓足了风帆的船，向他直冲过来。“All’s right!—all’s right!” he cried.  “It’s a mere rehearsal of Much Ado about Nothing.  Ladies, keep off, or I shall wax dangerous.”“什么事儿也没有！——什么事儿也没有？”他喊道。“不过是《无事生非》的一场彩排。女士们，让开，不然我要凶相毕露了。”And dangerous he looked: his black eyes darted sparks.  Calming himself by an effort, he added—而他确实目露凶光，乌黑的眼睛直冒火星。他竭力使自己镇定下来，补充道：“A servant has had the nightmare; that is all.  She’s an excitable, nervous person: she construed her dream into an apparition, or something of that sort, no doubt; and has taken a fit with fright.  Now, then, I must see you all back into your rooms; for, till the house is settled, she cannot be looked after.  Gentlemen, have the goodness to set the ladies the example.  Miss Ingram, I am sure you will not fail in evincing superiority to idle terrors.  Amy and Louisa, return to your nests like a pair of doves, as you are.   Mesdames” (to the dowagers), “you will take cold to a dead certainty, if you stay in this chill gallery any longer.”“一个仆人做了一场恶梦，就是这么回事。她好激动，神经质，她把梦里见到的当成了鬼魂，或是这一类东西，而且吓得昏了过去。好吧，现在我得关照大家回自己房间里去。因为只有整座房子安静下来了，我们才好照应她。先生们，请你们给女士们做个榜样。英格拉姆小姐，我敢肯定，你会证实自己不会被无端的恐惧所压倒。艾米和路易莎，就像一对真正的鸽子那样回到自己的窝里去。夫人们（向着两位遗孀），要是你们在冷嗖嗖的走廊上再呆下去，那肯定要得感冒。”And so, by dint of alternate coaxing and commanding, he contrived to get them all once more enclosed in their separate dormitories.  I did not wait to be ordered back to mine, but retreated unnoticed, as unnoticed I had left it.他就这样连哄带叫，好不容易让所有的人再次进了各自的房间，关上了门。我没有等他命令我回到自己房间，便像来的时候一样悄悄地走了。Not, however, to go to bed: on the contrary, I began and dressed myself carefully.  The sounds I had heard after the scream, and the words that had been uttered, had probably been heard only by me; for they had proceeded from the room above mine: but they assured me that it was not a servant’s dream which had thus struck horror through the house; and that the explanation Mr. Rochester had given was merely an invention framed to pacify his guests.  I dressed, then, to be ready for emergencies.  When dressed, I sat a long time by the window looking out over the silent grounds and silvered fields and waiting for I knew not what.  It seemed to me that some event must follow the strange cry, struggle, and call.不过我没有上床，反倒小心地穿好了衣服。那声尖叫以后传来的响动和大声喊出来的话，很可能只有我听到，因为是从我头顶的房间传来的。但我很有把握，闹得整所房子惊惶失措的，不是仆人的恶梦。罗切斯特先生的解释不过是一时的编造，用来稳住客人的情绪而已。于是我穿上衣服以防不测。穿戴停当后，我久久地坐在窗边，眺望着静谧的庭园和银色的田野，连自己也不知道在等待着什么。我似乎感到，在奇怪的喊叫、搏斗和呼救之后，必定要发生什么事情。No: stillness returned: each murmur and movement ceased gradually, and in about an hour Thornfield Hall was again as hushed as a desert.  It seemed that sleep and night had resumed their empire.  Meantime the moon declined: she was about to set.  Not liking to sit in the cold and darkness, I thought I would lie down on my bed, dressed as I was.  I left the window, and moved with little noise across the carpet; as I stooped to take off my shoes, a cautious hand tapped low at the door.但没有。一切又复归平静。每个细微的响动都渐渐停止，一小时后整座桑菲尔德府便像沙漠一般沉寂了。暗夜与沉睡似乎又恢复了自己的王国。与此同时，月亮下沉，快要隐去。我不喜欢那么冷丝丝黑咕隆咚地坐着，心想虽然穿好了衣服，倒还是躺在床上的好。我离开了窗子，轻手轻脚地穿过地毯，正想弯腰去脱鞋，一只谨慎的手轻轻地敲响了我的门。“Am I wanted?” I asked.“要我帮忙吗？”我问。“Are you up?” asked the voice I expected to hear, viz., my master’s.“你没有睡？”我意料中的那个声音问道，那是我主人的嗓音。“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“And dressed?”“而且穿了衣服？”“Yes.”“不错。”“Come out, then, quietly.”“那就出来吧，轻一点。”I obeyed.  Mr. Rochester stood in the gallery holding a light.我照他说的做了。罗切斯特先生端着灯，站在走廊上。“I want you,” he said: “come this way: take your time, and make no noise.”“我需要你帮忙，”他说，“这边走，慢一点，别出声。”My slippers were thin: I could walk the matted floor as softly as a cat.  He glided up the gallery and up the stairs, and stopped in the dark, low corridor of the fateful third storey: I had followed and stood at his side.我穿的是一双很薄的拖鞋，走在铺好席子的地板上，轻得像只猫。他溜过走廊，上了楼梯，在多事的三楼幽暗低矮的走廊上，停住了脚步，我尾随着，站在他旁边。“Have you a sponge in your room?” he asked in a whisper.“你房间里有没有海绵？”他低声耳语道。“Yes, sir.”“有，先生。”“Have you any salts—volatile salts?”“有没有盐——易挥发的盐？”“Yes.”“有的。”“Go back and fetch both.”“回去把这两样都拿来。”I returned, sought the sponge on the washstand, the salts in my drawer, and once more retraced my steps.  He still waited; he held a key in his hand: approaching one of the small, black doors, he put it in the lock; he paused, and addressed me again.我回到房间，从脸盆架上找到了海绵，从抽屉里找到了食盐，并顺原路返回。他依旧等待着，手里拿了把钥匙。他走近其中一扇黑色的小门，把钥匙插进锁孔，却又停下来同我说起话来。“You don’t turn sick at the sight of blood?”“见到血你不会恶心吧？”“I think I shall not: I have never been tried yet.”“我想不会吧，我从来没有经历过。”I felt a thrill while I answered him; but no coldness, and no faintness.我回答时不觉毛骨愧然，不过没有打寒颤，也没有头晕。“Just give me your hand,” he said: “it will not do to risk a fainting fit.”“把手伸给我，”他说，“可不能冒让你昏倒的危险。”I put my fingers into his.  “Warm and steady,” was his remark: he turned the key and opened the door.我把手指放在他手里。“温暖而沉着”便是他的评价。他转动了一下钥匙，开了门。I saw a room I remembered to have seen before, the day Mrs. Fairfax showed me over the house: it was hung with tapestry; but the tapestry was now looped up in one part, and there was a door apparent, which had then been concealed.  This door was open; a light shone out of the room within: I heard thence a snarling, snatching sound, almost like a dog quarrelling.  Mr. Rochester, putting down his candle, said to me, “Wait a minute,” and he went forward to the inner apartment.  A shout of laughter greeted his entrance; noisy at first, and terminating in Grace Poole’s own goblin ha! ha!  She then was there.  He made some sort of arrangement without speaking, though I heard a low voice address him: he came out and closed the door behind him.我看见了一个似曾见过的房间，记得就在费尔法克斯太太带我流览整幢房子的那一天。房间里悬着挂毯，但此刻一部份已经卷了起来，露出了一扇门，以前是遮蔽着的。门敞开着，里面的灯光射向门外。我从那里听到了一阵断断续续的咆哮声，同狗叫差不多。罗切斯特先生放下蜡烛，对我说了声“等一下，”便往前向内间走去。他一进去便响起了一阵笑声，先是闹闹嚷嚷，后来以格雷斯．普尔妖怪般的哈哈声而告终。她当时就在那儿。他一声不吭地作了安排，不过我还听到有人低声地同他说了话。他走了出来，随手关了门。“Here, Jane!” he said; and I walked round to the other side of a large bed, which with its drawn curtains concealed a considerable portion of the chamber.  An easy-chair was near the bed-head: a man sat in it, dressed with the exception of his coat; he was still; his head leant back; his eyes were closed.  Mr. Rochester held the candle over him; I recognised in his pale and seemingly lifeless face—the stranger, Mason: I saw too that his linen on one side, and one arm, was almost soaked in blood.“这儿来，简！”他说，我绕到了一张大床的另外一头，这张帷幔紧锁的床遮去了大半个房间。床头边有把安乐椅，椅子上坐了个人，除了外套什么都穿上了。他一动不动，脑袋往后靠着，双眼紧闭。罗切斯特先生把蜡烛端过他头顶。从苍白没有血色的脸上，我认出了那个陌生人梅森。我还看到，他内衣的一边和一只胳膊几乎都浸透了血。“Hold the candle,” said Mr. Rochester, and I took it: he fetched a basin of water from the washstand: “Hold that,” said he.  I obeyed.  He took the sponge, dipped it in, and moistened the corpse-like face; he asked for my smelling-bottle, and applied it to the nostrils.  Mr. Mason shortly unclosed his eyes; he groaned.  Mr. Rochester opened the shirt of the wounded man, whose arm and shoulder were bandaged: he sponged away blood, trickling fast down.“拿着蜡烛，”罗切斯特先生说。我取过蜡烛，而他从脸盆架上端来了一盆水。“端着它，”他说。我听从了。他拿了海绵，在脸盆里浸了一下，润了润死尸般的脸。他向我要了嗅盐瓶，把它放在梅森的鼻子底下。不久梅森先生张开眼睛，呻吟起来。罗切斯特先生解开了伤者的衬衫，那人的胳膊和肩膀都包扎了绷带。他把很快滴下来的血用海绵吸去。“Is there immediate danger?” murmured Mr. Mason.“有生命危险吗？”梅森先生喃喃地说。“Pooh!  No—a mere scratch.  Don’t be so overcome, man: bear up!  I’ll fetch a surgeon for you now, myself: you’ll be able to be removed by morning, I hope.  Jane,” he continued.“去去！没有——不过划破了一点皮。别那么消沉，伙计。鼓起劲儿来！现在我亲自给你去请医生，希望到了早上就可以把你送走。简——”他继续说。，“Sir?”“什么，先生？”“I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman, for an hour, or perhaps two hours: you will sponge the blood as I do when it returns: if he feels faint, you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips, and your salts to his nose.  You will not speak to him on any pretext—and—Richard, it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her: open your lips—agitate yourself—and I’ll not answer for the consequences.”“我得撇下你在这间房子里，同这位先生呆上一小时，也许两小时。要是血又流出来，你就象我那样用海绵把它吸掉。要是他感到头昏，你就把架子上的那杯水端到他嘴边，把盐放在他鼻子底下。无论如何不要同他说话——而——理查德——如果你同她说话，你就会有生命危险，譬如说张开嘴——让自己激动起来——那我就概不负责了。”Again the poor man groaned; he looked as if he dared not move; fear, either of death or of something else, appeared almost to paralyse him.  Mr. Rochester put the now bloody sponge into my hand, and I proceeded to use it as he had done.  这个可怜的男人哼了起来。他看上去好像不敢轻举妄动，怕死，或者害怕别的什么东西，似乎差不多使他僵硬了。罗切斯特先生这这时已浸染了血的海绵放进我手里，我就照他那样使用起来。He watched me a second, then saying, “Remember!—No conversation,” he left the room.  I experienced a strange feeling as the key grated in the lock, and the sound of his retreating step ceased to be heard.他看了我一会儿，随后说，“记住！——别说话！”便离开了房间。钥匙在锁孔喀喀响起，他远去的脚步声听不到时，我体会到了一种奇怪的感觉。Here then I was in the third storey, fastened into one of its mystic cells; night around me; a pale and bloody spectacle under my eyes and hands; a murderess hardly separated from me by a single door: yes—that was appalling—the rest I could bear; but I shuddered at the thought of Grace Poole bursting out upon me.结果我就在这里三层楼上了，被锁进了一个神秘的小房间。我的周围是暗夜，我的眼皮底下和手下，是白煞煞血淋淋的景象；一个女谋杀犯与我几乎只有一门之隔。是的——那令人胆颤心惊——其余的倒还可以忍受。但是我一想到格雷斯•普尔会向我扑来，便浑身直打哆嗦了。I must keep to my post, however.  I must watch this ghastly countenance—these blue, still lips forbidden to unclose—these eyes now shut, now opening, now wandering through the room, now fixing on me, and ever glazed with the dulness of horror.  I must dip my hand again and again in the basin of blood and water, and wipe away the trickling gore.  I must see the light of the unsnuffed candle wane on my employment; the shadows darken on the wrought, antique tapestry round me, and grow black under the hangings of the vast old bed, and quiver strangely over the doors of a great cabinet opposite—whose front, divided into twelve panels, bore, in grim design, the heads of the twelve apostles, each enclosed in its separate panel as in a frame; while above them at the top rose an ebon crucifix and a dying Christ.然而我得坚守岗位。我得看着这鬼一样的面孔——看着这色如死灰、一动不动，不许张开的嘴唇——看着这双时闭时开，时而在房间里转来转去，时而盯着我，吓得总是呆滞无光的眼睛。我得把手一次次浸入那盆血水里，擦去淌下的鲜血，我得在忙碌中眼看着没有剪过烛蕊的烛光渐渐暗淡下去，阴影落到了我周围精致古老的挂毯上，在陈旧的大床的帷幔下变得越来越浓重，而且在对面一个大柜的门上奇异地抖动起来——柜子的正面分成十二块嵌板，嵌板上画着十二使徒的头，面目狰狞，每个头单独占一块嵌板，就像在一个框框之中。在这些头颅的上端高悬着一个乌木十字架和殉难的基督。According as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there, it was now the bearded physician, Luke, that bent his brow; now St. John’s long hair that waved; and anon the devilish face of Judas, that grew out of the panel, and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor—of Satan himself—in his subordinate’s form.游移的暗影和闪烁的光芒在四处浮动和跳跃，我一会儿看到了胡子医生路加垂着头；一会儿看到了圣约翰飘动的长发；不久又看到了犹大魔鬼似的面孔，在嵌板上突现出来，似乎渐渐地有了生命，眼看就要以最大的背叛者撒旦的化身出现。Amidst all this, I had to listen as well as watch: to listen for the movements of the wild beast or the fiend in yonder side den.  But since Mr. Rochester’s visit it seemed spellbound: all the night I heard but three sounds at three long intervals,—a step creak, a momentary renewal of the snarling, canine noise, and a deep human groan.在这种情形下，我既得细听又得静观，细听有没有野兽或者那边窠穴中魔鬼的动静。可是自从罗切斯特先生来过之后，它似乎已被镇住了。整整一夜我只听见过三声响动，三次之间的间隔很长——一次吱吱的脚步声，一次重又响起短暂的狗叫似的声音，一次人的深沉的呻吟声。Then my own thoughts worried me.  What crime was this that lived incarnate in this sequestered mansion, and could neither be expelled nor subdued by the owner?—what mystery, that broke out now in fire and now in blood, at the deadest hours of night?  What creature was it, that, masked in an ordinary woman’s face and shape, uttered the voice, now of a mocking demon, and anon of a carrion-seeking bird of prey?此外，我自己也心烦意乱。究竟是一种什么罪行，以人的化身出现，蛰居在这座与世隔绝的大厦里，房主人既无法驱赶也难以制服？究竟是什么不可思议的东西，在夜深人静之时冲将出来，弄得一会儿起火，一会儿流血？究竟是什么畜生，以普通女人的面貌和体态伪装自己，发出的声音一会儿象假冒的魔鬼，一会儿像觅腐尸而食的猛禽？And this man I bent over—this commonplace, quiet stranger—how had he become involved in the web of horror? and why had the Fury flown at him?  What made him seek this quarter of the house at an untimely season, when he should have been asleep in bed?  I had heard Mr. Rochester assign him an apartment below—what brought him here!  And why, now, was he so tame under the violence or treachery done him?  Why did he so quietly submit to the concealment Mr. Rochester enforced?  Why did Mr. Rochester enforce this concealment?  His guest had been outraged, his own life on a former occasion had been hideously plotted against; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion!  Lastly, I saw Mr. Mason was submissive to Mr. Rochester; that the impetuous will of the latter held complete sway over the inertness of the former: the few words which had passed between them assured me of this.  It was evident that in their former intercourse, the passive disposition of the one had been habitually influenced by the active energy of the other: whence then had arisen Mr. Rochester’s dismay when he heard of Mr. Mason’s arrival?  Why had the mere name of this unresisting individual—whom his word now sufficed to control like a child—fallen on him, a few hours since, as a thunderbolt might fall on an oak?我俯身面对着的这个人——这个普普通通言语不多的陌生人——他是怎么陷入这个恐怖之网呢？为什么复仇之神要扑向他呢？是什么原因使他在应当卧床安睡的时刻，不适时宜地来这里投宿？我曾听罗切斯特先生在楼下指定了一个房间给他——是什么东西把他带到这儿来的呢？为什么别人对他施暴或者背弃，他此刻却那么俯首贴耳？为什么罗切斯特先生强迫他遮遮掩掩，他竟默默地顺从？这回，罗切斯特先生的一位宾客受到了伤害，上次他自己的性命遭到了恶毒的暗算，而这两件事他竟都秘密掩盖，故意忘却！最后，我看到梅森先生对罗切斯特先生服服贴贴，罗切斯特先生的火暴性子左右着梅森先生半死不活的个性。听了他们之间寥寥几句对话，我便对这个看法很有把握。显然在他们以往的交谈中，一位的消极脾性惯于受另一位的主动精神的影响，既然如此，那么罗切斯特先生一听梅森先生到了，怎么会顿生失望之情呢？为什么仅仅这个不速之客的名字——罗切斯特先生的话足以使他像孩子一样乖乖的——几小时之前，在罗切斯特先生听来，犹如雷电击中了一棵橡树？Oh!  I could not forget his look and his paleness when he whispered: “Jane, I have got a blow—I have got a blow, Jane.”  I could not forget how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder: and it was no light matter which could thus bow the resolute spirit and thrill the vigorous frame of Fairfax Rochester.呵，当他向我低声耳语：“简，我遭到了打击——我遭到了打击，简，”时，我决不会忘记他的表情和苍白的脸色，我也不会忘记他的胳膊靠在我肩上时，是怎样地颤抖的。使费尔法克斯．罗切斯特坚毅的精神折服，使他强健的体魄哆嗦的，决不是一件小事。“When will he come?  When will he come?” I cried inwardly, as the night lingered and lingered—as my bleeding patient drooped, moaned, sickened: and neither day nor aid arrived.  I had, again and again, held the water to Mason’s white lips; again and again offered him the stimulating salts: my efforts seemed ineffectual: either bodily or mental suffering, or loss of blood, or all three combined, were fast prostrating his strength.  He moaned so, and looked so weak, wild, and lost, I feared he was dying; and I might not even speak to him.“他什么时候来呢？他什么时候来呢？”我内心呼喊着，夜迟迟不去——我这位流着血的病人精神萎顿，又是呻吟，又想呕吐。而白昼和支援都没有来临，我已经一次次把水端到梅森苍白的嘴边，一次次把刺激性的嗅盐递给他。我的努力似乎并没有奏效，肉体的痛苦，抑或精神的痛楚，抑或失血，抑或三者兼而有之，使他的精力衰竭了。他如此呜咽着，看上去那么衰弱、狂乱和绝望，我担心他要死了，而我也许甚至同他连话都没有说过。The candle, wasted at last, went out; as it expired, I perceived streaks of grey light edging the window curtains: dawn was then approaching.  Presently I heard Pilot bark far below, out of his distant kennel in the courtyard: hope revived.  Nor was it unwarranted: in five minutes more the grating key, the yielding lock, warned me my watch was relieved.  It could not have lasted more than two hours: many a week has seemed shorter.蜡烛终于耗尽，熄灭了。灯灭之后，我看到窗帘边缘一缕缕灰色的微光，黎明正渐渐到来。不久我听到派洛特在底下院子里远远的狗窝外吠叫着。希望复活了，而且有了保证。五分钟后，钥匙喀喀一响，锁一开动便预示着我的守护工作解除了。前后没有超过两小时，但似乎比几个星期还长。Mr. Rochester entered, and with him the surgeon he had been to fetch.罗切斯特先生进来了，同来的还有他去请的外科医生。“Now, Carter, be on the alert,” he said to this last: “I give you but half-an-hour for dressing the wound, fastening the bandages, getting the patient downstairs and all.”“嗨，卡特，千万当心，”他对来人说，“我只给你半小时，包扎伤口、捆绑绷带，把病人送到楼下，全都在内。”“But is he fit to move, sir?”“可是他能走动吗，先生？”“No doubt of it; it is nothing serious; he is nervous, his spirits must be kept up.  Come, set to work.”“毫无疑问。伤势并不严重，就是神经紧张，得使他打起精神来。来，动手吧。”Mr. Rochester drew back the thick curtain, drew up the holland blind, let in all the daylight he could; and I was surprised and cheered to see how far dawn was advanced: what rosy streaks were beginning to brighten the east.  Then he approached Mason, whom the surgeon was already handling.罗切斯特先生拉开厚厚的窗幅，掀起亚麻布窗帘，尽量让月光射进屋来。看到黎明即将来临，我既惊讶又愉快。多漂亮的玫瑰色光束正开始照亮东方的天际！随后，罗切斯特先生走近梅森，这时外科医生已经在给他治疗了。“Now, my good fellow, how are you?” he asked.“喂，我的好家伙，怎么样？”他问道。“She’s done for me, I fear,” was the faint reply.“我怕她已送了我的命了，”那是对方微弱的回答。“Not a whit!—courage!  This day fortnight you’ll hardly be a pin the worse of it: you’ve lost a little blood; that’s all.  Carter, assure him there’s no danger.”“那里会呢！——拿出勇气来！再过两周你会什么事儿也没有，只不过出了点血。卡特，让他放心，不会有危险的。”“I can do that conscientiously,” said Carter, who had now undone the bandages; “only I wish I could have got here sooner: he would not have bled so much—but how is this?  The flesh on the shoulder is torn as well as cut.  This wound was not done with a knife: there have been teeth here!”“我可尽心去做，”卡特说，这会儿他已经打开了绷带。“要是早点赶到这儿该多好。他就不会流那么多血了——这是怎么回事？怎么肩膀上的肉撕掉了，而且还割开了？这不是刀伤，是牙齿咬的。”“She bit me,” he murmured.  “She worried me like a tigress, when Rochester got the knife from her.”“她咬了我，”他咕哝着。“罗切斯特从她手里把刀夺下来以后，她就象一头雌老虎那样撕咬着我。”“You should not have yielded: you should have grappled with her at once,” said Mr. Rochester.“你不该退让，应当立即抓住她。”罗切斯特先生说。“But under such circumstances, what could one do?” returned Mason.  “Oh, it was frightful!” he added, shuddering.  “And I did not expect it: she looked so quiet at first.”“可是在那种情况下，你还能怎么样呢？”梅森回答道。“啊，太可怕了！”他颤抖着补充道。“而我没有料到，起初她看上去那么平静。”“I warned you,” was his friend’s answer; “I said—be on your guard when you go near her.  Besides, you might have waited till to-morrow, and had me with you: it was mere folly to attempt the interview to-night, and alone.”“我警告过你，”他的朋友回答，“我说——你走近她时要当心。此外，你满可以等到明天，让我同你一起去。今天晚上就想去见她，而且单独去，实在是够傻的。”“I thought I could have done some good.”“我想我可以做些好事。”“You thought! you thought!  Yes, it makes me impatient to hear you: but, however, you have suffered, and are likely to suffer enough for not taking my advice; so I’ll say no more.  Carter—hurry!—hurry!  The sun will soon rise, and I must have him off.”“你想！你想！不错，听你这么说真让我感到不耐烦。不过你毕竟还是吃了苦头，不听我劝告你会吃够苦头，所以我以后不说了。卡特，快点！快点！太阳马上要出来了，我得把他弄走。”“Directly, sir; the shoulder is just bandaged.  I must look to this other wound in the arm: she has had her teeth here too, I think.”“马上好，先生。肩膀已经包扎好了。我得治疗一下胳膊上的另一个伤口。我想她的牙齿在这里咬了一下。”“She sucked the blood: she said she’d drain my heart,” said Mason.“她吸了血，她说要把我的心吸干，”梅森说。I saw Mr. Rochester shudder: a singularly marked expression of disgust, horror, hatred, warped his countenance almost to distortion; but he only said—我看见罗切斯特先生打了个哆嗦，那种极其明显的厌恶、恐惧和痛恨的表情，使他的脸扭曲得变了形。不过他只说：“Come, be silent, Richard, and never mind her gibberish: don’t repeat it.”“来吧，不要作声，理查德，别在乎她的废话。不要唠叨了。”“I wish I could forget it,” was the answer.“但愿我能忘掉它，”对方回答。“You will when you are out of the country: when you get back to Spanish Town, you may think of her as dead and buried—or rather, you need not think of her at all.”“你一出这个国家就会忘掉。等你回到了西班牙城你就算她已经死了，给埋了——或者你压根儿就不必去想她了。”“Impossible to forget this night!”“怎么也忘不了今天晚上！”“It is not impossible: have some energy, man.  You thought you were as dead as a herring two hours since, and you are all alive and talking now.  There!—Carter has done with you or nearly so; I’ll make you decent in a trice.  Jane” (he turned to me for the first time since his re-entrance), “take this key: go down into my bedroom, and walk straight forward into my dressing-room: open the top drawer of the wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and neck-handkerchief: bring them here; and be nimble.”“不会忘不了，老兄，振作起来吧。两小时之前你还说你像条死鱼那样没命了，而你却仍旧活得好好的，现在还在说话。行啦：——卡特已经包扎好啦，或者差不多了。一会儿我就让你打扮得整整齐齐。简（他再次进门后还是第一回同我说话），把这把钥匙拿着，下楼到我的卧室去，一直走进梳妆室，打开衣柜顶端的抽屉，取件干净的衬衫和一条围巾，拿到这里来，动作利索些。”I went; sought the repository he had mentioned, found the articles named, and returned with them.我去了，找到了他说的衣柜，翻出了他指名要的东西，带着它们回来了。“Now,” said he, “go to the other side of the bed while I order his toilet; but don’t leave the room: you may be wanted again.”“行啦，”他说，“我要替他梳装打扮了，你到床那边去，不过别离开房间，也许还需要你。”I retired as directed.我按他的吩咐退避了。“Was anybody stirring below when you went down, Jane?” inquired Mr. Rochester presently.“你下楼的时候别人有动静吗，简？”罗切斯特先生立刻问。“No, sir; all was very still.”“没有，先生，一点声息也没有。”“We shall get you off cannily, Dick: and it will be better, both for your sake, and for that of the poor creature in yonder.  I have striven long to avoid exposure, and I should not like it to come at last.  Here, Carter, help him on with his waist-coat.  Where did you leave your furred cloak?  You can’t travel a mile without that, I know, in this damned cold climate.  In your room?—Jane, run down to Mr. Mason’s room,—the one next mine,—and fetch a cloak you will see there.”“我们会小心地让你走掉，迪克。这对你自己，对那边的可怜虫都比较好。我一直竭力避免曝光，也不想到头来泄露出去。来，卡特，帮他穿上背心。你的毛皮斗篷放在哪儿了？我知道，在这种见鬼的冷天气里，没有斗篷，连一英里都走不了。在你房间里吗？——简，跑下楼到梅森先生的房间去——在我的隔壁——把你看到的斗篷拿来。”Again I ran, and again returned, bearing an immense mantle lined and edged with fur.我又跑下去，跑回来，捧回一件皮夹里皮镶边大斗篷。“Now, I’ve another errand for you,” said my untiring master; “you must away to my room again.  What a mercy you are shod with velvet, Jane!—a clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture.  You must open the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a little phial and a little glass you will find there,—quick!”“现在我还要差你做另一件事，”我那不知疲倦的主人说。“你得再去我房间一趟。幸亏你穿的是丝绒鞋，简！——在这种时候，粗手笨脚的听差绝对不行。你得打开我梳妆台的中间抽屉，把你看到的一个小瓶子和一个小杯拿来，——快！”I flew thither and back, bringing the desired vessels.我飞也似地去了又来，揣着他要的瓶子。“That’s well!  Now, doctor, I shall take the liberty of administering a dose myself, on my own responsibility.  I got this cordial at Rome, of an Italian charlatan—a fellow you would have kicked, Carter.  It is not a thing to be used indiscriminately, but it is good upon occasion: as now, for instance.  Jane, a little water.”“干得好！行啦，医生，我要擅自用药了，我自己负责，这瓶兴奋剂，我是从罗马一位意大利庸医那儿搞来的——这家伙，你准会踹他一脚，卡特，这东西不能包治百病，但有时还灵，譬如说现在。简，拿点水来。”He held out the tiny glass, and I half filled it from the water-bottle on the washstand.他递过那小玻璃杯，我从脸盆架上的水瓶里倒了半杯水。“That will do;—now wet the lip of the phial.”“够了——现在用水把瓶口抹一下。”I did so; he measured twelve drops of a crimson liquid, and presented it to Mason.我这么做了。他滴了十二滴深红色液体，把它递给梅森。“Drink, Richard: it will give you the heart you lack, for an hour or so.”“喝吧，理查德，它会把你所缺乏的勇气鼓起来，保持一小时左右。”“But will it hurt me?—is it inflammatory?”“可是对身体有害吗？——有没有刺激性？”“Drink! drink! drink!”“喝呀！喝呀！喝呀！”Mr. Mason obeyed, because it was evidently useless to resist.  He was dressed now: he still looked pale, but he was no longer gory and sullied.  Mr. Rochester let him sit three minutes after he had swallowed the liquid; he then took his arm—梅森先生服从了，显然抗拒也无济于事。这时他已穿戴停当，看上去仍很苍白，但已不再血淋淋，脏兮兮。罗切斯特先生让他在喝了那液体后，又坐了三分钟，随后握住他胳膊：“Now I am sure you can get on your feet,” he said—“try.”“现在，你肯定站得起来了，”他说，“试试看。”The patient rose.病人站了起来。“Carter, take him under the other shoulder.  Be of good cheer, Richard; step out—that’s it!”“卡特，扶住他另一个肩膀。理查德，振作起来，往前跨——对啦！”“I do feel better,” remarked Mr. Mason.“我确实感觉好多了”梅森先生说。“I am sure you do.  Now, Jane, trip on before us away to the backstairs; unbolt the side-passage door, and tell the driver of the post-chaise you will see in the yard—or just outside, for I told him not to drive his rattling wheels over the pavement—to be ready; we are coming: and, Jane, if any one is about, come to the foot of the stairs and hem.”“我相信你是这样。嗨，简，你先走，跑在我们前头，到后楼梯去把边门的门栓拉开，告诉在院子里能看到的驿车车夫——也许车子就在院子外头，因为我告诉他别在人行道上驾车，弄得轮子扎扎响——让他准备好。我们就来了。还有，简，要是附近有人，你就走到楼梯下呼一声。”It was by this time half-past five, and the sun was on the point of rising; but I found the kitchen still dark and silent.  The side-passage door was fastened; I opened it with as little noise as possible: all the yard was quiet; but the gates stood wide open, and there was a post-chaise, with horses ready harnessed, and driver seated on the box, stationed outside.  I approached him, and said the gentlemen were coming; he nodded: then I looked carefully round and listened.  The stillness of early morning slumbered everywhere; the curtains were yet drawn over the servants’ chamber windows; little birds were just twittering in the blossom-blanched orchard trees, whose boughs drooped like white garlands over the wall enclosing one side of the yard; the carriage horses stamped from time to time in their closed stables: all else was still.这时已是五点半，太阳就要升起。不过我发觉厨房里依然黑洞洞静悄悄的。边门上了栓，我把它打开，尽量不发出声来。院子里一片沉寂。但院门敞开着，有辆驿车停在外面，马匹都套了马具，车夫坐在车座上。我走上前去，告诉他先生们就要来了。他点了点头。随后我小心四顾，凝神静听。清晨一切都在沉睡，处处一片宁静。仆人房间里的门窗都还遮着窗帘，小鸟在白花满枝的果树上啁啾，树枝像白色的花环那样低垂着，从院子一边的围墙探出头来。在紧闭的马厩里，拉车用的马不时蹬几下蹄子，此外便一切都静谧无声了。The gentlemen now appeared.  Mason, supported by Mr. Rochester and the surgeon, seemed to walk with tolerable ease: they assisted him into the chaise; Carter followed.这时先生们到了。梅森由罗切斯特先生和医生扶着，步态似乎还算自如，他们搀着他上了车，卡特也跟着上去了。“Take care of him,” said Mr. Rochester to the latter, “and keep him at your house till he is quite well: I shall ride over in a day or two to see how he gets on.  Richard, how is it with you?”“照料他一下，”罗切斯特先生对卡特说，“让他呆在你家里，一直到好为止。过一两天我会骑马过来探望他的。理查德，你怎么样了？”“The fresh air revives me, Fairfax.”“新鲜空气使我恢复了精神，费尔法克斯。”“Leave the window open on his side, Carter; there is no wind—good-bye, Dick.”“让他那边的窗子开着，卡特，反正没风——再见，迪克。”“Fairfax—”“费尔法克斯——”“Well what is it?”“噢，什么事？”“Let her be taken care of; let her be treated as tenderly as may be: let her—” he stopped and burst into tears.“照顾照顾她吧，待她尽量温柔些，让她——”他哭了起来，说不下去了。“I do my best; and have done it, and will do it,” was the answer: he shut up the chaise door, and the vehicle drove away.“尽我的力量。我已经这么做了，将来也会这么做的，”他答道，关上了驿车的门，车子开走了。“Yet would to God there was an end of all this!” added Mr. Rochester, as he closed and barred the heavy yard-gates.“上帝保佑，统统都了结了！”罗切斯特先生一面说，一面把沉重的院门关上，并拴好。This done, he moved with slow step and abstracted air towards a door in the wall bordering the orchard.  I, supposing he had done with me, prepared to return to the house; again, however, I heard him call “Jane!”  He had opened feel portal and stood at it, waiting for me.之后，他步履迟缓、心不在焉地踱向同果园接界的墙门。我想他已经用不着我了，准备回房去。

却又听见他叫了声“简！”他已经开了门，站在门旁等我。“Come where there is some freshness, for a few moments,” he said; “that house is a mere dungeon: don’t you feel it so?”“来，这里空气新鲜，呆一会儿吧，”他说，“这所房子不过是座监狱，你不这样觉得吗？”“It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir.”“我觉得是座豪华的大厦，先生。”“The glamour of inexperience is over your eyes,” he answered; “and you see it through a charmed medium: you cannot discern that the gilding is slime and the silk draperies cobwebs; that the marble is sordid slate, and the polished woods mere refuse chips and scaly bark.  Now here” (he pointed to the leafy enclosure we had entered) “all is real, sweet, and pure.”“天真烂漫所造成的魔力蒙住了你的眼睛，”他回答说。“你是用着了魔的眼光来看它的，你看不出镀的金是粘土；丝绸帐幔是蛛网；大理石是污秽的石板；上光的木器不过是废木屑和烂树皮。而这里（他指着我们踏进的树叶繁茂的院落）一切都那么纯真香甜。”He strayed down a walk edged with box, with apple trees, pear trees, and cherry trees on one side, and a border on the other full of all sorts of old-fashioned flowers, stocks, sweet-williams, primroses, pansies, mingled with southernwood, sweet-briar, and various fragrant herbs.  They were fresh now as a succession of April showers and gleams, followed by a lovely spring morning, could make them: the sun was just entering the dappled east, and his light illumined the wreathed and dewy orchard trees and shone down the quiet walks under them.他沿着一条小径信步走去，小径一边种着黄杨木、苹果树、梨树和樱桃树；另一边是花坛，长满了各类老式花：有紫罗兰、美洲石竹、报春花、三色瑾，混杂着老人蒿，多花蔷薇和各色香草。四月里持续不断晴雨交替的天气，以及紧随的春光明媚的早晨，使这些花草鲜艳无比。太阳正进入光影斑驳的东方，阳光照耀着花满枝头露水晶莹的果树，照亮了树底下幽静的小径。“Jane, will you have a flower?”“简，给你一朵花好吗？”He gathered a half-blown rose, the first on the bush, and offered it to me.他采摘了枝头上第一朵初开的玫瑰，把它给了我。“Thank you, sir.”“谢谢，先生。”“Do you like this sunrise, Jane?  That sky with its high and light clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm—this placid and balmly atmosphere?”“你喜欢日出吗，简？喜欢天空，以及天气一暖和就消失的高高的轻云吗？——喜欢这宁静而温馨的气氛吗？”“I do, very much.”“喜欢，很喜欢。”“You have passed a strange night, Jane.”“你度过了一个奇怪的夜晚，简。”“Yes, sir.”“是呀，先生。”“And it has made you look pale—were you afraid when I left you alone with Mason?”“弄得你脸无神色了——让你一个人与梅森呆着，你怕吗？”“I was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room.”“我怕有人会从内间走出来。”“But I had fastened the door—I had the key in my pocket: I should have been a careless shepherd if I had left a lamb—my pet lamb—so near a wolf’s den, unguarded: you were safe.”“可是我拴了门——钥匙在我口袋里。要是我把一只羊羔——我心爱的小羊——毫无保护地留在狼窝边，那我岂不是一个粗心大意的牧羊人了？你很安全。”“Will Grace Poole live here still, sir?”“格雷斯．普尔还会住在这儿吗，先生？”“Oh yes! don’t trouble your head about her—put the thing out of your thoughts.”“呵，是的，别为她去烦神了——忘掉这事儿吧。”“Yet it seems to me your life is hardly secure while she stays.”“我总觉得只要她在，你就不得安宁。”“Never fear—I will take care of myself.”“别怕——我会照顾好自己的。”“Is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now, sir?”“你昨晚担心的危险现在没有了吗，先生？”“I cannot vouch for that till Mason is out of England: nor even then.  To live, for me, Jane, is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack and spue fire any day.”“梅森不离开英格兰，我就无法担保。甚至他走了也不行。活着对我来说，简，好象是站在火山表面，哪一天地壳都可能裂开，喷出火来。”“But Mr. Mason seems a man easily led.  Your influence, sir, is evidently potent with him: he will never set you at defiance or wilfully injure you.”“可是梅森先生好像是容易摆布的，你的影响，先生，对他明显起着作用，他决不会同你作对，或者有意伤害你。”“Oh, no!  Mason will not defy me; nor, knowing it, will he hurt me—but, unintentionally, he might in a moment, by one careless word, deprive me, if not of life, yet for ever of happiness.”“呵，不错！梅森是不会跟我作对，也不会明明知道而来伤害我——不过，无意之中他可能因为一时失言，即使不会使我送命，也会断送我一生的幸福。”“Tell him to be cautious, sir: let him know what you fear, and show him how to avert the danger.”“告诉他小心从事，先生，让他知道你的忧虑，指点他怎样来避开危险。”He laughed sardonically, hastily took my hand, and as hastily threw it from him.他嘲弄地哈哈大笑起来，一下子抓住我的手，一下子又把它甩掉了。“If I could do that, simpleton, where would the danger be?  Annihilated in a moment.  Ever since I have known Mason, I have only had to say to him ‘Do that,’ and the thing has been done.  But I cannot give him orders in this case: I cannot say ‘Beware of harming me, Richard;’ for it is imperative that I should keep him ignorant that harm to me is possible.  Now you look puzzled; and I will puzzle you further.  You are my little friend, are you not?”“要是我能那样做，傻瓜，那还有什么危险可言，顷刻之间就可排除。自我认得梅森以来，我只要对他说‘那么干’，他就会那么办。不过在这件事情上我可不能对他发号施令，不能同他说‘当心伤着我，理查德，’因为我必须将他蒙在鼓里，使他不知道可能会伤着我，现在你似乎大惑不解，我还会让你更莫名其妙呢。你是我的小朋友，对吗？”“I like to serve you, sir, and to obey you in all that is right.”“我愿意为你效劳，先生，只要是对的，我都服从你。”“Precisely: I see you do.  I see genuine contentment in your gait and mien, your eye and face, when you are helping me and pleasing me—working for me, and with me, in, as you characteristically say, ‘all that is right:’ for if I bid you do what you thought wrong, there would be no light-footed running, no neat-handed alacrity, no lively glance and animated complexion.  My friend would then turn to me, quiet and pale, and would say, ‘No, sir; that is impossible: I cannot do it, because it is wrong;’ and would become immutable as a fixed star.  

Well, you too have power over me, and may injure me: yet I dare not show you where I am vulnerable, lest, faithful and friendly as you are, you should transfix me at once.”“确实如此，我看你是这么做的。你帮助我，使我愉快——为我忙碌，也与我一起忙碌，干你惯于说的‘只要是对的’事情时，我从你的步履和神采，你的目光和表情上，看到了一种真诚的满足。因为要是我吩咐你去干你心目中的错事，那就不会有步态轻盈的奔忙，干脆利落的敏捷，没有活泼的眼神，兴奋的脸色了。我的朋友会神态恬静面容苍白地转向我说：‘不，先生，那不可能，我不能干，因为那不对。’你会象一颗定了位的星星那样不可改变。



噢，你也能左右我，还可以伤害我，不过我不敢把我的弱点告诉你，因为尽管你既老实又友好，你会立刻弄得我目瞪口呆的。”“If you have no more to fear from Mr. Mason than you have from me, sir, you are very safe.”“要是梅森也像我一样没有什么使你害怕的话，你就安全了。”“God grant it may be so!  Here, Jane, is an arbour; sit down.”“上帝保佑，但愿如此！来，简，这里有个凉棚，坐下吧。”The arbour was an arch in the wall, lined with ivy; it contained a rustic seat.  Mr. Rochester took it, leaving room, however, for me: but I stood before him.这凉棚是搭在墙上的一个拱顶，爬满了藤蔓。棚下有一把粗木椅子，罗切斯特先生坐了下来，还给我留出了地方。不过我站在他跟前。“Sit,” he said; “the bench is long enough for two.  You don’t hesitate to take a place at my side, do you?  Is that wrong, Jane?”“坐下吧，”他说“这条长凳够两个人坐的，你不会是为要不要坐在我旁边而犹豫不决吧？难道那错了吗，简？”I answered him by assuming it: to refuse would, I felt, have been unwise.我坐了下来，等于是对他的回答。我觉得谢绝是不明智的。“Now, my little friend, while the sun drinks the dew—while all the flowers in this old garden awake and expand, and the birds fetch their young ones’ breakfast out of the Thornfield, and the early bees do their first spell of work—I’ll put a case to you, which you must endeavour to suppose your own: but first, look at me, and tell me you are at ease, and not fearing that I err in detaining you, or that you err in staying.”“好吧，我的小朋友，当太阳吸吮着雨露——当老园子里的花统统苏醒并开放，鸟儿飞越桑菲尔德为雏鸟送来早餐，早起的蜜蜂开始了它们第一阵劳作时——我要把这件事诉说给你听，你务必要努力把它设想成自己的。不过先看着我，告诉我你很平静，并不担心我把你留着是错的，或者你呆着是不对的。”“No, sir; I am content.”“不，先生，我很情愿。”“Well then, Jane, call to aid your fancy:—suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined, but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land; conceive that you there commit a capital error, no matter of what nature or from what motives, but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence.  Mind, I don’t say a crime; I am not speaking of shedding of blood or any other guilty act, which might make the perpetrator amenable to the law: my word is error.  The results of what you have done become in time to you utterly insupportable; you take measures to obtain relief: unusual measures, but neither unlawful nor culpable.  Still you are miserable; for hope has quitted you on the very confines of life: your sun at noon darkens in an eclipse, which you feel will not leave it till the time of setting.  Bitter and base associations have become the sole food of your memory: you wander here and there, seeking rest in exile: happiness in pleasure—I mean in heartless, sensual pleasure—such as dulls intellect and blights feeling.  Heart-weary and soul-withered, you come home after years of voluntary banishment: you make a new acquaintance—how or where no matter: you find in this stranger much of the good and bright qualities which you have sought for twenty years, and never before encountered; and they are all fresh, healthy, without soil and without taint.  “那么好吧，简，发挥你的想象力吧——设想你不再是受过精心培养和教导的姑娘，而是从幼年时代起就是一个放纵任性的男孩。想象你身处遥远的异国，假设你在那里铸成了大错，不管其性质如何，出于什么动机，它的后果殃及你一生，玷污你的生活。注意，我没有说‘犯罪’，不是说流血或是其他犯罪行为，那样的话肇事者会被绳之以法，我用的字是‘错误’。你行为的恶果，到头来使你绝对无法忍受。你采取措施以求获得解脱，非正常的措施，但既不是非法，也并非有罪。而你仍然感到不幸，因为希望在生活的边缘离你而去，你的太阳遇上日蚀，在正午就开始暗淡，你觉得不到日落不会有所改变，痛苦和卑贱的联想，成了你记忆的唯一食品。你到处游荡，在放逐中寻求安逸，在亨乐中寻觅幸福一—我的意思是沉缅于无情的肉欲——它消蚀才智，摧残情感。在几年的自愿放逐以后，你心力交瘁地回到了家里，结识了一位新知——何时结识，如何结识，都无关紧要。在这位陌生人身上，你看到了很多出类拔率的品质，为它们你已经寻寻觅觅二十来年，却终不可得。这些品质新鲜健康，没有污渍，没有斑点，Such society revives, regenerates: you feel better days come back—higher wishes, purer feelings; you desire to recommence your life, and to spend what remains to you of days in a way more worthy of an immortal being.  To attain this end, are you justified in overleaping an obstacle of custom—a mere conventional impediment which neither your conscience sanctifies nor your judgment approves?”这种交往使人复活，催人新生。你觉得好日子又回来了——志更高，情更真。你渴望重新开始生活，以一种更配得上不朽的灵魂的方式度过余生。为了达到这个目的，你是不是有理由越过习俗的藩篱——那种既没有得到你良心的认可，也不为你的识见所赞同的、纯粹因袭的障碍？”He paused for an answer: and what was I to say?  Oh, for some good spirit to suggest a judicious and satisfactory response!  Vain aspiration!  The west wind whispered in the ivy round me; but no gentle Ariel borrowed its breath as a medium of speech: the birds sang in the tree-tops; but their song, however sweet, was inarticulate.他停了一下等我回答，而我该说什么呢？呵！但愿有一位善良的精灵能给我提示一个明智而满意的答复！空想而已！西风在我周围的藤蔓中耳语，可就是没有一位温存的埃里厄尔①把它的呼息借我一用，充当说话的媒介。鸟儿在树梢歌唱，它们的歌声虽然甜蜜，却无法让人理解。Again Mr. Rochester propounded his query:罗切斯特先生再次提出了他的问题：“Is the wandering and sinful, but now rest-seeking and repentant, man justified in daring the world’s opinion, in order to attach to him for ever this gentle, gracious, genial stranger, thereby securing his own peace of mind and regeneration of life?”“这个一度浪迹天涯罪孽深重，现在思安悔过的人，是不是有理由无视世俗的偏见，使这位和蔼可亲、通情达理的陌生人，与他永远相依，以获得内心的宁静和生命的复苏？”“Sir,” I answered, “a wanderer’s repose or a sinner’s reformation should never depend on a fellow-creature.  Men and women die; philosophers falter in wisdom, and Christians in goodness: if any one you know has suffered and erred, let him look higher than his equals for strength to amend and solace to heal.”“先生，”我回答，“一个流浪者要安顿下来，或者一个罪人要悔改，不应当依赖他的同类。男人和女人都难免一死；哲学家们会在智慧面前踌躇，基督教徒会在德行面前犹豫。要是你认识的人曾经吃过苦头，犯过错误，就让他从高于他的同类那儿，企求改过自新的力量，获得治疗创伤的抚慰。”“But the instrument—the instrument!  God, who does the work, ordains the instrument.  I have myself—I tell it you without parable—been a worldly, dissipated, restless man; and I believe I have found the instrument for my cure in—”“可是途径呢——途径：实施者上帝指定途径。我自己——直截了当地告诉你吧——曾经是个老于世故、放荡不羁、焦躁不安的汉子，现在我相信自己找到了救治的途径，它在于——”He paused: the birds went on carolling, the leaves lightly rustling.  I almost wondered they did not check their songs and whispers to catch the suspended revelation; but they would have had to wait many minutes—so long was the silence protracted.  At last I looked up at the tardy speaker: he was looking eagerly at me.他打住了。鸟儿唱个不停，树叶飒飒有声。我几乎惊异于它们不刹住歌声和耳语，倾听中止的袒露。不过它们得等上好几分钟——这沉默延续了好久。我终于抬头去看这位吞吞吐吐的说话人，他也急切地看着我。”“Little friend,” said he, in quite a changed tone—while his face changed too, losing all its softness and gravity, and becoming harsh and sarcastic—“you have noticed my tender penchant for Miss Ingram: don’t you think if I married her she would regenerate me with a vengeance?”“小朋友，”他说，完全改了口气——脸色也变了，失去了一切温柔和庄重，变得苛刻和嘲弄—一“你注意到了我对英格拉姆小姐的柔情吧，要是我娶了她，你不认为她会使我彻底新生吗？”He got up instantly, went quite to the other end of the walk, and when he came back he was humming a tune.他猛地站了起来，几乎走到了小径的另一头，走回来时嘴里哼着小调。”“Jane, Jane,” said he, stopping before me, “you are quite pale with your vigils: don’t you curse me for disturbing your rest?”“简，简，”他说着在我跟前站住了，“你守了一夜，脸色都发白了，你不骂我打扰了你的休息？”“Curse you?  No, sir.”“骂你？哪会呢，先生。”“Shake hands in confirmation of the word.  What cold fingers!  They were warmer last night when I touched them at the door of the mysterious chamber.  Jane, when will you watch with me again?”“握手为证。多冷的手指！昨晚在那间神秘的房间门外相碰时，比现在要暖和得多。简，什么时候你再同我一起守夜呢？”“Whenever I can be useful, sir.”“凡是用得着我的时候，先生。”“For instance, the night before I am married!  I am sure I shall not be able to sleep.  Will you promise to sit up with me to bear me company?  To you I can talk of my lovely one: for now you have seen her and know her.”“比方说，我结婚的前一夜。我相信我会睡不着。你答应陪我一起熬夜吗？对你，我可以谈我心爱的人，因为现在你已经见过她，认识她了。”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”、“She’s a rare one, is she not, Jane?”“她是一个不可多得的人，是不是，简？”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“A strapper—a real strapper, Jane: big, brown, and buxom; with hair just such as the ladies of Carthage must have had.  Bless me! there’s Dent and Lynn in the stables!  Go in by the shrubbery, through that wicket.”“一个体魄强壮的女人——十足的强壮女人，简。高高的个子，褐色的皮肤，丰满的胸部，迦太基女人大概会有的头发。天哪！登特和林恩在那边的马厩里了！穿过灌木，从小门进去。”As I went one way, he went another, and I heard him in the yard, saying cheerfully—我走了一条路，他走了另一条。只听见他在院子里愉快地说：“Mason got the start of you all this morning; he was gone before sunrise: I rose at four to see him off.”“今天早晨梅森比谁都起得早。太阳还没有出来他就走了，我四点起来送他的。”CHAPTER XXI二十一章Presentiments are strange things! and so are sympathies; and so are signs; and the three combined make one mystery to which humanity has not yet found the key.  I never laughed at presentiments in my life, because I have had strange ones of my own.  Sympathies, I believe, exist (for instance, between far-distant, long-absent, wholly estranged relatives asserting, notwithstanding their alienation, the unity of the source to which each traces his origin) whose workings baffle mortal comprehension.  And signs, for aught we know, may be but the sympathies of Nature with man.预感真是个怪物！还有感应，还有征兆，都无不如此。三者合一构成了人类至今无法索解的秘密。我平生从未讥笑过预感，因为我自己也有过这种奇怪的经历。我相信心灵感应是存在的（例如在关系甚远、久不往来、完全生疏的亲戚之间，尽管彼此疏远，但都认不有着同一个渊源）。心灵感应究竟如何产生，却不是人类所能理解的。至于征兆，也许不过是自然与人的感应。When I was a little girl, only six years old, I one night heard Bessie Leaven say to Martha Abbot that she had been dreaming about a little child; and that to dream of children was a sure sign of trouble, either to one’s self or one’s kin.  The saying might have worn out of my memory, had not a circumstance immediately followed which served indelibly to fix it there.  The next day Bessie was sent for home to the deathbed of her little sister.我还只是一个六岁的小女孩时，一天夜里听见贝茜•利文对马撒•艾博特说，她梦见了一个小孩，而梦见孩子无论对自己还是对亲人，肯定是不祥之兆。要不是紧接着发生的一件事给我留下了难以磨灭的印象，这种说法也许早就淡忘了。第二天贝茜被叫回家去看她咽气的小妹妹。Of late I had often recalled this saying and this incident; for during the past week scarcely a night had gone over my couch that had not brought with it a dream of an infant, which I sometimes hushed in my arms, sometimes dandled on my knee, sometimes watched playing with daisies on a lawn, or again, dabbling its hands in running water.  It was a wailing child this night, and a laughing one the next: now it nestled close to me, and now it ran from me; but whatever mood the apparition evinced, whatever aspect it wore, it failed not for seven successive nights to meet me the moment I entered the land of slumber.近来，我常常忆起这种说法和这件事情。因为上个星期，我几乎每晚都在床上梦见一个婴孩。有时抱在怀里哄它安静下来；有时放在膝头摆弄；有时看着它在草地上摸弄雏菊，或者伸手在流水中戏水。一晚是个哭着的孩子，另一晚是个笑着的孩子；一会儿它紧偎着我，一会又逃得远远的。但是不管这幽灵心情怎样，长相如何，一连七夜我一进入梦乡，它便来迎接我。I did not like this iteration of one idea—this strange recurrence of one image, and I grew nervous as bedtime approached and the hour of the vision drew near.  It was from companionship with this baby-phantom I had been roused on that moonlight night when I heard the cry; and it was on the afternoon of the day following I was summoned downstairs by a message that some one wanted me in Mrs. Fairfax’s room.  




On repairing thither, I found a man waiting for me, having the appearance of a gentleman’s servant: he was dressed in deep mourning, and the hat he held in his hand was surrounded with a crape band.我不喜欢同一念头反复不去——不喜欢同一形象奇怪地一再出现。临要上床和幻象就要出现的时刻，我便局促不安起来。由于同这位梦中的婴孩形影不离，那个月夜，我听到了一声啼哭后便惊醒过来。第二天下午我被叫下楼去，捎来口信说有人要见我，等候在费尔法克斯太太房间里。







我赶到那里，只见一个绅士仆人模样的人在等我，他身穿丧服，手中拿着的帽子围着一圈黑纱。“I daresay you hardly remember me, Miss,” he said, rising as I entered; “but my name is Leaven: I lived coachman with Mrs. Reed when you were at Gateshead, eight or nine years since, and I live there still.”“恐怕你记不得我了吧，小姐，”我一进屋他便站了起来说，“不过我的名字叫利文，八、九年前你在盖茨黑德的时候，我住在那里，替里德太太当车夫。现在我还是住在那儿。”“Oh, Robert! how do you do?  I remember you very well: you used to give me a ride sometimes on Miss Georgiana’s bay pony.  And how is Bessie?  You are married to Bessie?”“哦，罗伯特！你好吗？我可记得清楚呐，有时候你还让我骑一骑乔治亚娜小姐的栗色小马呢。贝茜怎么样？你同她结婚了？”“Yes, Miss: my wife is very hearty, thank you; she brought me another little one about two months since—we have three now—and both mother and child are thriving.”“是的，小姐，我的太太很健康，谢谢。两个月之前她又给我生了个小家伙——现在我们有三个了——大人和孩子都好。”“And are the family well at the house, Robert?”“盖茨黑德府全家都好吗，罗伯特？”“I am sorry I can’t give you better news of them, Miss: they are very badly at present—in great trouble.”“很抱歉，我没法儿给你带来好消息，小姐。眼下他们都很糟——糟糕得很哪。”“I hope no one is dead,” I said, glancing at his black dress.  He too looked down at the crape round his hat and replied—“但愿没有人去世了，”我瞥了一下他黑色的丧服说。他也低头瞧了一下围在帽上的黑纱，并回答道：“Mr. John died yesterday was a week, at his chambers in London.”“约翰先生在伦敦住所去世了，到昨天正好一周。”“Mr. John?”“约翰先生？”“Yes.”“不错。”“And how does his mother bear it?”“他母亲怎么受得了呢？”“Why, you see, Miss Eyre, it is not a common mishap: his life has been very wild: these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways, and his death was shocking.”“哎呀你瞧，爱小姐，这不是一桩平平常常的不幸，他的生活非常放荡，最近三年他放纵得出奇，死得也吓人。”“I heard from Bessie he was not doing well.”“我从贝茜那儿听到他日子不好过。”“Doing well!  He could not do worse: he ruined his health and his estate amongst the worst men and the worst women.  He got into debt and into jail: his mother helped him out twice, but as soon as he was free he returned to his old companions and habits.  His head was not strong: the knaves he lived amongst fooled him beyond anything I ever heard.  He came down to Gateshead about three weeks ago and wanted missis to give up all to him.  Missis refused: her means have long been much reduced by his extravagance; so he went back again, and the next news was that he was dead.  How he died, God knows!—they say he killed himself.”“不好过！不能再坏了，他在一批坏男女中间厮混，糟塌了身体，荡光了家产，负了债，坐了牢。他母亲两次帮他弄出来，但他一出来便又找到了老相识，恢复了旧习气。他的脑子不大健全，那些同他相处的无赖，不择手段欺骗他。三个礼拜之前，他来到盖茨黑德府，要夫人把什么都给他，被夫人拒绝了，因为她的财产早已被他挥霍掉很多。所以又只好返回去，随后的消息便是他死掉了。天知道他是怎么死的！——他们说他自杀了。”I was silent: the things were frightful.  Robert Leaven resumed—我默默无语，这消息着实可怕。罗伯特．利文又往下说：“Missis had been out of health herself for some time: she had got very stout, but was not strong with it; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down.  The information about Mr. John’s death and the manner of it came too suddenly: it brought on a stroke.  She was three days without speaking; but last Tuesday she seemed rather better: she appeared as if she wanted to say something, and kept making signs to my wife and mumbling.  It was only yesterday morning, however, that Bessie understood she was pronouncing your name; and at last she made out the words, ‘Bring Jane—fetch Jane Eyre: I want to speak to her.’  Bessie is not sure whether she is in her right mind, or means anything by the words; but she told Miss Reed and Miss Georgiana, and advised them to send for you.  The young ladies put it off at first; but their mother grew so restless, and said, ‘Jane, Jane,’ so many times, that at last they consented.  I left Gateshead yesterday: and if you can get ready, Miss, I should like to take you back with me early to-morrow morning.”“夫人自己健康也不好，这已经有好长一段时间了。身体发胖，但并不强壮。她损失了钱，又怕变成穷光蛋，所以便垮了下来。约翰先生的死讯和这种死法来得很突然，害得她中风了。一连三天没有说话。不过上星期二似乎好些了，仿佛想说什么，不住地招呼我妻子，嘴里还叽哩咕噜。直到昨天早上贝茜才弄明白，她叨念着你的名字。最后贝茜把她的话搞清楚了，‘把简叫来——去把简•爱叫来，我有话要同她说。’贝茜不敢肯定她的神志是否清醒，这些话有没有意思。不过她告诉了里德小姐和乔治亚娜小姐，向她们建议把你去叫来。起初两位年轻小姐拖拖拉拉，但她们的母亲越来越焦躁不安，而旦‘简，简’地叫个不停，最后她们终算同意了。昨天我从盖茨黑德府动身。小姐，要是来得及准备，我想明天一早带你同我一起回去。”“Yes, Robert, I shall be ready: it seems to me that I ought to go.”“是的，罗伯特，我会准备好的，我似乎应当去。”“I think so too, Miss.  Bessie said she was sure you would not refuse: but I suppose you will have to ask leave before you can get off?”“我也是这么想的，小姐。贝茜说她可以肯定，你不会拒绝。不过我想，你动身之前得请个假。”“Yes; and I will do it now;” and having directed him to the servants’ hall, and recommended him to the care of John’s wife, and the attentions of John himself, I went in search of Mr. Rochester.“是呀，我现在就去请假。”我把他领到了仆人室，将他交给约翰的妻子照应，并由约翰亲自过问后，便进去寻找罗切斯特先生了。He was not in any of the lower rooms; he was not in the yard, the stables, or the grounds.  I asked Mrs. Fairfax if she had seen him;—yes: she believed he was playing billiards with Miss Ingram.  To the billiard-room I hastened: the click of balls and the hum of voices resounded thence; Mr. Rochester, Miss Ingram, the two Misses Eshton, and their admirers, were all busied in the game.  It required some courage to disturb so interesting a party; my errand, however, was one I could not defer, so I approached the master where he stood at Miss Ingram’s side.  She turned as I drew near, and looked at me haughtily: her eyes seemed to demand, “What can the creeping creature want now?” and when I said, in a low voice, “Mr. Rochester,” she made a movement as if tempted to order me away.  I remember her appearance at the moment—it was very graceful and very striking: she wore a morning robe of sky-blue crape; a gauzy azure scarf was twisted in her hair.  She had been all animation with the game, and irritated pride did not lower the expression of her haughty lineaments.他不在底下几层的房间里，也不在院子里，马厩里或者庭园里。我问费尔法克斯太太有没有见到过他——不错，她想他跟英格拉姆小姐在玩台球。我急忙赶到台球房，那里回响着台球的咔嗒声和嗡嗡的说话声。罗切斯特先生、英格拉姆小姐、两位埃希顿小姐和她们的倾慕者正忙着玩那游戏呢。要去打搅这批兴致勃勃的人是需要有勇气的，但我的事儿又不能拖延。于是我便向我主人走去，他站在英格拉姆小姐旁边。我一走近，她便回过头来盛气凌人地看着我，她的眼睛似乎在说，“那个迟迟疑疑的家伙现在要干什么？”当我轻轻地叫了声，“罗切斯特先生”时，她移动了一下，仿佛按捺不住要命令我走开。我还记得她那时的样子——优雅而出众。她穿着一件天蓝的皱纱睡袍，头发上缠着一条青色薄纱头巾。她玩兴正浓，虽然触犯了自尊，但脸上骄矜之气未减。“Does that person want you?” she inquired of Mr. Rochester; and Mr. Rochester turned to see who the “person” was.  He made a curious grimace—one of his strange and equivocal demonstrations—threw down his cue and followed me from the room.“那人找你吗？”她问罗切斯特先生。罗切斯特先生回头看看“那人”是谁，作了个奇怪的鬼脸——异样而含糊的表情——扔下了球棒，随我走出了房门。“Well, Jane?” he said, as he rested his back against the schoolroom door, which he had shut.“怎么啦，简？”他关了房门后，身子倚在门上说。“If you please, sir, I want leave of absence for a week or two.”“对不起，先生，我想请一、两周假。”“What to do?—where to go?”“干嘛？——上哪儿去呀？”“To see a sick lady who has sent for me.”“去看一位生了病的太太，是她派人来叫我的。”“What sick lady?—where does she live?”“哪位生病的太太？——她住在哪儿？”“At Gateshead; in ---shire.”“在××郡的盖茨黑德府。”“-shire?  That is a hundred miles off!  Who may she be that sends for people to see her that distance?”“××郡？离这儿有一百英里呢！这么远叫人回去看她，这人可是谁呀？”“Her name is Reed, sir—Mrs. Reed.”“她叫里德，先生——里德太太。”“Reed of Gateshead?  There was a Reed of Gateshead, a magistrate.”“盖茨黑德的里德吗？盖茨黑德府是有一个叫里德的，是个地方法官。”“It is his widow, sir.”“我说的是他的寡妇，先生。”“And what have you to do with her?  How do you know her?”“那你与她有什么关系？怎么认得她的呢？”“Mr. Reed was my uncle—my mother’s brother.”“里德先生是我的舅舅——我母亲的哥哥。”“The deuce he was!  You never told me that before: you always said you had no relations.”“哎呀他是你舅舅！你从来没有跟我说起过他，你总是说你没有亲戚。”“None that would own me, sir.  Mr. Reed is dead, and his wife cast me off.”“没有一个亲戚肯承认我，先生。里德先生去世了，他的夫人抛弃了我。”“Why?”“为什么？”“Because I was poor, and burdensome, and she disliked me.”“因为我穷，是个包袱，她不喜欢我。”“But Reed left children?—you must have cousins?  Sir George Lynn was talking of a Reed of Gateshead yesterday, who, he said, was one of the veriest rascals on town; and Ingram was mentioning a Georgiana Reed of the same place, who was much admired for her beauty a season or two ago in London.”“可是里德他留下了孩子？——你一定有表兄妹的了？昨天乔治．林恩爵士说起盖茨黑德府一个叫里德的人——他说这人是城里一个十足的无赖，而英格拉姆提到了同一个地方叫乔治亚娜．里德的，一两个社交季节之前，因为美貌，在伦敦大受倾慕。”“John Reed is dead, too, sir: he ruined himself and half-ruined his family, and is supposed to have committed suicide.  The news so shocked his mother that it brought on an apoplectic attack.”“约翰•里德也死了，先生，他毁了自己，也差不多毁了他的家，据说他是自杀的。噩耗传来，他母亲大为震惊，一下子中风了。”“And what good can you do her?  Nonsense, Jane!  I would never think of running a hundred miles to see an old lady who will, perhaps, be dead before you reach her: besides, you say she cast you off.”“你能帮她什么忙？胡闹，简？我才不会想跑一百英里去看一个老太太呢，而她也许还没等你赶到就死了。更何况你说她把你抛弃了。”“Yes, sir, but that is long ago; and when her circumstances were very different: I could not be easy to neglect her wishes now.”“不错，先生，但那已是很久以前了，而且当时的情况不同。现在要是我无视她的心愿，我会不安心的。”“How long will you stay?”“你要呆多久？”“As short a time as possible, sir.”“尽量短些，先生。”“Promise me only to stay a week—”“答应我只呆一星期。”“I had better not pass my word: I might be obliged to break it.”“我还是不要许诺好，很可能我会不得不食言。”“At all events you will come back: you will not be induced under any pretext to take up a permanent residence with her?”“无论如何你要回来，在任何情况下都要经得住劝诱，不跟她一辈子住在一起。”“Oh, no!  I shall certainly return if all be well.”“呵，对！要是一切顺利，我当然会回来的。”“And who goes with you?  You don’t travel a hundred miles alone.”“谁同你一起走？可不能独个儿跑一百英里路呀？”“No, sir, she has sent her coachman.”“不，先生，她派了一个赶车人来。”“A person to be trusted?”“一个信得过的人吗？”“Yes, sir, he has lived ten years in the family.”“是的先生，他在那儿已经住了十年。”Mr. Rochester meditated.  “When do you wish to go?”罗切斯特先生沉思了一会。“你希望什么时候走？”“Early to-morrow morning, sir.”“明天一早，先生。”“Well, you must have some money; you can’t travel without money, and I daresay you have not much: I have given you no salary yet.  How much have you in the world, Jane?” he asked, smiling.“好吧，你得带些钱在身边，出门可不能没有钱。我猜想你钱不多。我还没有付你工资呢。你一古脑儿还有多少钱，简？”他笑着问。I drew out my purse; a meagre thing it was.  “Five shillings, sir.”  He took the purse, poured the hoard into his palm, and chuckled over it as if its scantiness amused him.  Soon he produced his pocket-book: “Here,” said he, offering me a note; it was fifty pounds, and he owed me but fifteen.  I told him I had no change.我取出钱包，里面瘪瘪的。“五先令，先生。”他伸手拿过钱包，把里面的钱全倒在手掌上，噗吃一声笑了出来，仿佛是钱使他高兴似的。他立刻取出了自己的皮夹子，“拿着吧，”他说着递给我一张钞票：五十英镑，而他只欠我十五英镑。我告诉他我找不出。“I don’t want change; you know that.  Take your wages.”“我不要你找，你知道的。拿着你的工资吧。”I declined accepting more than was my due.  He scowled at first; then, as if recollecting something, he said—我拒绝接受超过我应得的东西。他先是皱了皱眉，随后仿佛想起了什么似地说：“Right, right!  Better not give you all now: you would, perhaps, stay away three months if you had fifty pounds.  There are ten; is it not plenty?”“行，行！现在还是不要全给你的好。要是你有五十镑，也许就会呆上三个月。十英镑，够吗？”“Yes, sir, but now you owe me five.”“够啦，先生，不过现在你欠我五英镑了。”“Come back for it, then; I am your banker for forty pounds.”“那就回来拿吧，你有四十镑存在我这儿。”“Mr. Rochester, I may as well mention another matter of business to you while I have the opportunity.”“罗切斯特先生，我还是趁这个机会向你提一下另一桩事务吧。”“Matter of business?  I am curious to hear it.”“事务？我听了很感到好奇。”“You have as good as informed me, sir, that you are going shortly to be married?”“你实际上已经通知我，先生，你很快就要结婚了。”“Yes; what then?”“是的，那又怎么样？”“In that case, sir, Adèle ought to go to school: I am sure you will perceive the necessity of it.”“那样的话，先生，阿黛勒该去上学了，可以肯定你会觉察到这样做的必要性。”“To get her out of my bride’s way, who might otherwise walk over her rather too emphatically?  There’s sense in the suggestion; not a doubt of it.  Adèle, as you say, must go to school; and you, of course, must march straight to—the devil?”“让她别碍着我新娘，不然她会过份地蔑视她。毫无疑问，你这建议有道理。像你说的，阿黛勒得上学，而你，当然，得直奔——魔鬼？”“I hope not, sir; but I must seek another situation somewhere.”“希望不是这样，先生。不过我得上什么地方另找个工作。”“In course!” he exclaimed, with a twang of voice and a distortion of features equally fantastic and ludicrous.  He looked at me some minutes.“当然！”他大叫道，嗓门里带着鼻音，面部抽搐了一下，表情既古怪又可笑。他打量了我几分钟。“And old Madam Reed, or the Misses, her daughters, will be solicited by you to seek a place, I suppose?”“你会去求老夫人里德，或者她的女儿，也就是那些小姐们给你找个工作，我猜是吧？”“No, sir; I am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify me in asking favours of them—but I shall advertise.”“不，先生，我亲戚们没有那层可以请求帮忙的关系——不过我会登广告。”“You shall walk up the pyramids of Egypt!” he growled.  “At your peril you advertise!  I wish I had only offered you a sovereign instead of ten pounds.  Give me back nine pounds, Jane; I’ve a use for it.”“你还可以大步跨上埃及金字塔！”他咆哮着。“你登广告是冒险：但愿我刚才只给了你一镑，而不是十镑。把五镑还给我，简，我要派用处。”“And so have I, sir,” I returned, putting my hands and my purse behind me.  “I could not spare the money on any account.”“我也要派用处，先生，”我回嘴道，双手抓住钱包藏到了背后。“那钱我说什么也不放。”“Little niggard!” said he, “refusing me a pecuniary request!  Give me five pounds, Jane.”“小气鬼！”他说，“问你要点儿钱你就拒绝！给我五镑，简。”“Not five shillings, sir; nor five pence.”“连五镑也不给，先生，五便士也不给。”“Just let me look at the cash.”“让我就瞧一瞧你的钱吧。”“No, sir; you are not to be trusted.”“不，先生，我不能相信你。”“Jane!”“简！”“Sir?”“先生？”“Promise me one thing.”“答应我一件事。”“I’ll promise you anything, sir, that I think I am likely to perform.”“先生，凡是自己力所能及的，我都能答应。”“Not to advertise: and to trust this quest of a situation to me.  I’ll find you one in time.”“不要去登广告，你就把找工作的事交给我办吧，到时候我会给你找一个。”“I shall be glad so to do, sir, if you, in your turn, will promise that I and Adèle shall be both safe out of the house before your bride enters it.”“我很乐意这么做，先生。只要你反过不答应我，在新娘进屋之前我和阿黛勒都太太平平离开这所房子。”“Very well! very well!  I’ll pledge my word on it.  You go to-morrow, then?”“好呀！好呀！我答应。那你明天动身？”“Yes, sir; early.”“是的，先生，一大早。”“Shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner?”“晚饭后你下楼来客厅吗？”“No, sir, I must prepare for the journey.”“不来了，先生，我还得收拾行装呢。”“Then you and I must bid good-bye for a little while?”“那你我得暂时告别了？”“I suppose so, sir.”“我想是这样，先生。”“And how do people perform that ceremony of parting, Jane?  Teach me; I’m not quite up to it.”“一般人采用怎样的仪式来告别，简？教一教我吧，我不大在行。”“They say, Farewell, or any other form they prefer.”“他们说再见，或者其他喜欢的方式。”“Then say it.”“那就说吧。”“Farewell, Mr. Rochester, for the present.”“再见，罗切斯特先生，暂时告别了。”“What must I say?”“我该说什么呢？”“The same, if you like, sir.”“一样说法，要是你高兴，先生。”“Farewell, Miss Eyre, for the present; is that all?”“再见了。简•爱，暂时告别了，就是这些吗？”“Yes?”“是的。”“It seems stingy, to my notions, and dry, and unfriendly.  I should like something else: a little addition to the rite.  If one shook hands, for instance; but no—that would not content me either.  So you’ll do no more than say Farewell, Jane?”“在我看来，你好象有点太吝啬、干巴巴、不友好。我还想要点别的，一点礼仪之外的东西。比如，握握手，不，——那也不能使我满意。那你就只说‘再见’了，简？”“It is enough, sir: as much good-will may be conveyed in one hearty word as in many.”“这够了，先生，这两个亲切的字眼所表达的友好情意，跟许多字里一样多。”“Very likely; but it is blank and cool—‘Farewell.’”“很可能是这样，但这既空洞又冷淡——‘再见’”“How long is he going to stand with his back against that door?” I asked myself; “I want to commence my packing.”  The dinner-bell rang, and suddenly away he bolted, without another syllable: I saw him no more during the day, and was off before he had risen in the morning.“他背靠着门会站多久呢？”我暗自问道，“我要开始收拾了。”晚餐铃响了，他猛地跑开，一句话也没有说。那天我没有再见到他，第二天早晨，他还没起床我就动身走了。I reached the lodge at Gateshead about five o’clock in the afternoon of the first of May: I stepped in there before going up to the hall.  It was very clean and neat: the ornamental windows were hung with little white curtains; the floor was spotless; the grate and fire-irons were burnished bright, and the fire burnt clear.  Bessie sat on the hearth, nursing her last-born, and Robert and his sister played quietly in a corner.五月一日下午五点左右，我到了盖茨黑德府门房，上府宅之前我先进去瞧瞧。里面十分整洁，装饰窗上挂着小小的白色窗帘，地板一尘不染，炉栅和炉具都擦得锃亮，炉子里燃着明净的火苗。贝茜坐在火炉边上，喂着最小的一个孩子，罗伯特和妹妹在墙角不声不响地玩着。“Bless you!—I knew you would come!” exclaimed Mrs. Leaven, as I entered.“哎呀！——我知道你会来的！”我进门时利文太太叫道。“Yes, Bessie,” said I, after I had kissed her; “and I trust I am not too late.  How is Mrs. Reed?—Alive still, I hope.”“是呀，贝茜，”我吻了吻她说，“我相信来得还不至于太晚，里德太太怎么样了？——我希望还活着。”“Yes, she is alive; and more sensible and collected than she was.  The doctor says she may linger a week or two yet; but he hardly thinks she will finally recover.”“不错，她还活着，而且更明白事理，更泰然了。医生说她会拖上一周两周，但认为她很难好得了。”“Has she mentioned me lately?”“近来她提到过我吗？”“She was talking of you only this morning, and wishing you would come, but she is sleeping now, or was ten minutes ago, when I was up at the house.  She generally lies in a kind of lethargy all the afternoon, and wakes up about six or seven.  Will you rest yourself here an hour, Miss, and then I will go up with you?”“今天早上还说起过你呢，希望你能来。不过她现在睡着了，或者说十分钟之前我在楼上的时候，正睡着呢。整个下午她总是那么懒洋洋地躺着，六七点钟左右醒来。小姐，你在这儿歇个把小时，然后我跟你一起上去好吗？”Robert here entered, and Bessie laid her sleeping child in the cradle and went to welcome him: afterwards she insisted on my taking off my bonnet and having some tea; for she said I looked pale and tired.  I was glad to accept her hospitality; and I submitted to be relieved of my travelling garb just as passively as I used to let her undress me when a child.这时罗伯特进来了，贝茜把睡着的孩子放进摇篮，上去迎接他。随后她硬要我脱掉帽子，用些茶点，说我显得既苍白又疲惫。我很乐意接受她的殷勤招待，顺从地任她脱去了行装，就像儿时任她脱掉衣服一样。Old times crowded fast back on me as I watched her bustling about—setting out the tea-tray with her best china, cutting bread and butter, toasting a tea-cake, and, between whiles, giving little Robert or Jane an occasional tap or push, just as she used to give me in former days.  Bessie had retained her quick temper as well as her light foot and good looks.我瞧着她忙乎着，摆好茶盘，拿出最好的瓷器，切好面包和奶油，烤好茶点吐司，不时还轻轻地拍一拍，推一推罗伯特或简，就象小时候对待我一样；于是旧时的记忆又立刻浮上心头。贝茜的性子依然那么急，手脚依然那么轻，容貌依然那么姣好。Tea ready, I was going to approach the table; but she desired me to sit still, quite in her old peremptory tones.  I must be served at the fireside, she said; and she placed before me a little round stand with my cup and a plate of toast, absolutely as she used to accommodate me with some privately purloined dainty on a nursery chair: and I smiled and obeyed her as in bygone days.茶点备好以后，我正要走近桌子，她却要我坐着别动，用的还是过去那种专断的口气。她说得让我坐着，在火炉旁招待我。她把一个园园的架子放在我面前，架子上摆了杯子和一盘吐司，完全就像她过去一样，把我安顿在育儿室的椅子上，让我吃一些暗地里偷来的精美食品。我象往昔一样微笑着依了她。She wanted to know if I was happy at Thornfield Hall, and what sort of a person the mistress was; and when I told her there was only a master, whether he was a nice gentleman, and if I liked him.  I told her he was rather an ugly man, but quite a gentleman; and that he treated me kindly, and I was content.  Then I went on to describe to her the gay company that had lately been staying at the house; and to these details Bessie listened with interest: they were precisely of the kind she relished.她想知道我在桑菲尔德府是不是愉快，女主人是怎样一个人。当我告诉她只有一个男主人时，她问我那位先生好不好，我是不是喜欢。我告诉她这人长得比较难看，却很有教养，待我很好，我很满意。随后我继续给她描绘那批最近呆在府上寻欢作乐的客人，贝茜对这些细节听得津津有味，她恰巧就爱听这些东西。In such conversation an hour was soon gone: Bessie restored to me my bonnet, &c., and, accompanied by her, I quitted the lodge for the hall.  It was also accompanied by her that I had, nearly nine years ago, walked down the path I was now ascending.  On a dark, misty, raw morning in January, I had left a hostile roof with a desperate and embittered heart—a sense of outlawry and almost of reprobation—to seek the chilly harbourage of Lowood: that bourne so far away and unexplored.  The same hostile roof now again rose before me: my prospects were doubtful yet; and I had yet an aching heart.  I still felt as a wanderer on the face of the earth; but I experienced firmer trust in myself and my own powers, and less withering dread of oppression.  The gaping wound of my wrongs, too, was now quite healed; and the flame of resentment extinguished.谈着谈着一小时很快就过去了，贝茜把帽子等还给我。我由她陪着出了门房上府宅去。差不多九年之前我也是由她这么陪着，从我此刻登上的小径走下来的。一月的某个灰暗阴冷、雾气弥漫的早晨，我带着绝望和痛苦的心情——一种被放逐和几乎是被抛弃的感觉，离开了这个仇视我的家，去寻找罗沃德阴冷的避风港，那个遥远而陌生的地方。此刻我面前又出现了同一个仇视我的家，我的前途未卜，我的心还隐隐作痛。我仍然觉得自己是世间的一个飘泊者，但已更加自信自强，少了一份无可奈何的压抑感。冤屈所撕裂的伤口现在已经愈合，愤怒的火焰已经熄灭。“You shall go into the breakfast-room first,” said Bessie, as she preceded me through the hall; “the young ladies will be there.”“你先去餐室，”贝茜领我穿过府宅时说，“小姐们会在那儿的。”In another moment I was within that apartment.  There was every article of furniture looking just as it did on the morning I was first introduced to Mr. Brocklehurst: the very rug he had stood upon still covered the hearth.  Glancing at the bookcases, I thought I could distinguish the two volumes of Bewick’s British Birds occupying their old place on the third shelf, and Gulliver’s Travels and the Arabian Nights ranged just above.  

The inanimate objects were not changed; but the living things had altered past recognition.眨眼之间我便进了那个套间。每件家具看上去同我初次介绍给布罗克赫斯特先生的那个早上一模一样。他站过的那块地毯依然盖着壁炉的地面。往书架上一看，我还能认出比尤伊克的两卷本《英国鸟类史》，放在第三个书架上的老地方，以及这部书正上方的《格列佛游记》和《天方夜谭》。




无生命的东西依旧，有生命的东西已面目全非。Two young ladies appeared before me; one very tall, almost as tall as Miss Ingram—very thin too, with a sallow face and severe mien.  There was something ascetic in her look, which was augmented by the extreme plainness of a straight-skirted, black, stuff dress, a starched linen collar, hair combed away from the temples, and the nun-like ornament of a string of ebony beads and a crucifix.  This I felt sure was Eliza, though I could trace little resemblance to her former self in that elongated and colourless visage.我面前站着两位年青小姐，一位个子很高，与英格拉姆小姐相仿——同样很瘦，面色灰黄，表情严肃。神态中有着某种禁欲主义的色彩。极度朴实的穿著和打扮，增强了这种色彩。她穿着黑色紧身呢裙，配着上过浆的亚麻领子，头发从两鬓往后梳，戴着修女似的饰物，一串乌木念珠和一个十字架。我觉得这人肯定是伊丽莎，尽管从她那张拉长了的没有血色的脸上，已经很难找到与她昔日模样相似的地方了。The other was as certainly Georgiana: but not the Georgiana I remembered—the slim and fairy-like girl of eleven.  This was a full-blown, very plump damsel, fair as waxwork, with handsome and regular features, languishing blue eyes, and ringleted yellow hair.  The hue of her dress was black too; but its fashion was so different from her sister’s—so much more flowing and becoming—it looked as stylish as the other’s looked puritanical.另外一位肯定是乔治亚娜，不过已不是我记忆中身材苗条，仙女一般的十一岁姑娘乔治亚娜了。这是一位已经完全长成、十分丰满的年轻姑娘，有着白得像蜡制品的肤色，端正漂亮的五官，含情脉脉的蓝眼睛，黄色的卷发。她的衣服一样是黑色的，但式样与她姐姐的大不相同——显得飘逸合身得多——看上去很时髦，犹如另一位看上去像位清教徒。In each of the sisters there was one trait of the mother—and only one; the thin and pallid elder daughter had her parent’s Cairngorm eye: the blooming and luxuriant younger girl had her contour of jaw and chin—perhaps a little softened, but still imparting an indescribable hardness to the countenance otherwise so voluptuous and buxom.姐妹两人各自都保留了母亲的一个特征——只有一个。瘦削苍白的姐姐有着她母亲的烟晶宝石色眸子，而生气勃勃的妹妹却承继了母亲颏骨和下巴的轮廓——也许要柔和一点，但使她的面容透出一种难以描摹的冷峻，要不然这会是一个十分妖艳美丽的脸蛋。Both ladies, as I advanced, rose to welcome me, and both addressed me by the name of “Miss Eyre.”  Eliza’s greeting was delivered in a short, abrupt voice, without a smile; and then she sat down again, fixed her eyes on the fire, and seemed to forget me.  Georgiana added to her “How d’ye do?” several commonplaces about my journey, the weather, and so on, uttered in rather a drawling tone: and accompanied by sundry side-glances that measured me from head to foot—now traversing the folds of my drab merino pelisse, and now lingering on the plain trimming of my cottage bonnet.  我一走近她们，两位小姐都立起来迎接我，都用名字“爱小姐”称呼我。伊丽莎招呼我时，嗓音短暂而唐突，没有笑容。随后她便又坐下，加了几句关于旅途和天气之类的寒喧，说话时慢声慢气，还不时侧眼看我，从头打量到脚——目光一会儿落在黄褐色美利奴毛皮外衣的褶缝上，一会停留在我乡间小帽的普通饰物上。Young ladies have a remarkable way of letting you know that they think you a “quiz” without actually saying the words.  A certain superciliousness of look, coolness of manner, nonchalance of tone, express fully their sentiments on the point, without committing them by any positive rudeness in word or deed.年轻小姐们自有一套高明的办法，让你知道她认为你“可笑”而不必说出那两个字来。某种高傲的神态，冷淡与举止和漠然的声调，就充分表达了她们的情感，而不必借助十足粗鲁的言行。A sneer, however, whether covert or open, had now no longer that power over me it once possessed: as I sat between my cousins, I was surprised to find how easy I felt under the total neglect of the one and the semi-sarcastic attentions of the other—Eliza did not mortify, nor Georgiana ruffle me.  The fact was, I had other things to think about; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise—pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow—that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad.然而无论是明嘲还是暗讽，对我已失去了一度有过的影响力。我坐在两位表姐妹中间，惊讶地发现自己对一位的完全怠慢，另一位半带嘲弄的殷勤处之泰然——伊丽莎伤不了我的感情，乔治亚娜也没有使我生气。事实上我有别的事情要想。最近几个月里，我内心被唤起的感情，比她们所能煽起的要强烈得多—一所激起的痛苦和欢乐要比她们所能加予和馈赠的要尖锐和激烈得多——她们的神态好歹与我无关。“How is Mrs. Reed?” I asked soon, looking calmly at Georgiana, who thought fit to bridle at the direct address, as if it were an unexpected liberty.“里德太太怎么样了？”我立刻问道，镇静地瞧着乔治亚娜，而她认为我这样直呼其名是应当嗤之以鼻的，仿佛这是种出乎意料的冒昧行为。“Mrs. Reed?  Ah! mama, you mean; she is extremely poorly: I doubt if you can see her to-night.”“里德太太？呵！你的意思说妈妈。她的情况极其糟糕，我怀疑你今晚是否能见她。”“If,” said I, “you would just step upstairs and tell her I am come, I should be much obliged to you.”“如果，”我说，“你肯上楼去同她说一声我来了，我会非常感激的。”Georgiana almost started, and she opened her blue eyes wild and wide.  “I know she had a particular wish to see me,” I added, “and I would not defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely necessary.”乔治亚娜几乎惊跳了起来，一双蓝眼睛睁得大大的。“我知道她特别想看看我，”我补充了一句，“除非万不得已，我可不愿意迟迟不满足她的愿望。”“Mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening,” remarked Eliza.  I soon rose, quietly took off my bonnet and gloves, uninvited, and said I would just step out to Bessie—who was, I dared say, in the kitchen—and ask her to ascertain whether Mrs. Reed was disposed to receive me or not to-night.  I went, and having found Bessie and despatched her on my errand, I proceeded to take further measures.  It had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance: received as I had been to-day, I should, a year ago, have resolved to quit Gateshead the very next morning; now, it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan.  I had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt, and I must stay with her till she was better—or dead: as to her daughters’ pride or folly, I must put it on one side, make myself independent of it.  So I addressed the housekeeper; asked her to show me a room, told her I should probably be a visitor here for a week or two, had my trunk conveyed to my chamber, and followed it thither myself: I met Bessie on the landing.“妈妈不喜欢晚上打搅她”，伊丽莎说。我不待邀请便立即顾自站了起来，默默地脱去帽子和手套，说是要上贝茜那儿去——我猜想贝茜一定在厨房里——叫她问问明白里德太太今晚是否有意接待我。我去找到了贝茜，派她去干这件差事，并打算进一步采取措施。我向来有个习惯，一遇上别人高傲狂妄，自己便退缩不前。她们今天这么待我，要是在一年之前，我会决定明天早晨就离开盖茨黑德。而此刻，我顿时明白那是个愚蠢的念头。我长途跋涉一百英里来看舅妈，我得守着她，直到她好转，或者去世。至于她女儿的自傲或愚蠢，我应当置之度外，不受干扰。于是我同管家去打交道，让她找个房间，告诉她我要在这儿作客，可能呆上一周两周，让她把我的箱子搬到房间里去。我也跟着去那里，在楼梯口碰上了贝茜。”“Missis is awake,” said she; “I have told her you are here: come and let us see if she will know you.”“夫人醒着呢，”她说，“我已经告诉她你来了。来，看看她还认不认得你。”I did not need to be guided to the well-known room, to which I had so often been summoned for chastisement or reprimand in former days.  I hastened before Bessie; I softly opened the door: a shaded light stood on the table, for it was now getting dark.  There was the great four-post bed with amber hangings as of old; there the toilet-table, the armchair, and the footstool, at which I had a hundred times been sentenced to kneel, to ask pardon for offences by me uncommitted.  I looked into a certain corner near, half-expecting to see the slim outline of a once dreaded switch which used to lurk there, waiting to leap out imp-like and lace my quivering palm or shrinking neck.  I approached the bed; I opened the curtains and leant over the high-piled pillows.我不必由人领往那个熟识的房间，因为以前我总是被叫到那里挨骂和受罚。我赶在贝茜之前轻轻推开了门。桌子上点着一盏有罩的灯，天色已渐渐暗下来。像往昔一样，还是那张琥珀色帐幔罩着四根大床柱的床，还是那张梳妆台，那把安乐椅，那条脚凳。在这条脚凳上，我成百次地被罚跪，请求宽恕我并不存在的过错。我窥视了一下附近的墙角，多少希望看到曾使我胆战心惊的细长木条的影子，过去它总是潜伏在那儿，伺机象魔鬼一般窜出来，鞭挞我颤抖的手掌或往后缩的脖子。我走近床榻，撩开帐幔，俯身向着高高叠起的枕头。Well did I remember Mrs. Reed’s face, and I eagerly sought the familiar image.  It is a happy thing that time quells the longings of vengeance and hushes the promptings of rage and aversion.  I had left this woman in bitterness and hate, and I came back to her now with no other emotion than a sort of ruth for her great sufferings, and a strong yearning to forget and forgive all injuries—to be reconciled and clasp hands in amity.我清楚地记得里德太太的面容，所以急切要寻找那熟悉的形象。令人高兴的是，时光消蚀了复仇的念头，驱散了泛起的愤怒与厌恶之情。过去我带着苦涩与憎恨离开了这个女人，现在又回到了她身边，仅仅是出于对她极度痛苦的同情，出于不念旧恶、握手言和的强烈愿望。The well-known face was there: stern, relentless as ever—there was that peculiar eye which nothing could melt, and the somewhat raised, imperious, despotic eyebrow.  How often had it lowered on me menace and hate! and how the recollection of childhood’s terrors and sorrows revived as I traced its harsh line now!  And yet I stooped down and kissed her: she looked at me.那里是一张熟悉的面孔，依旧那样严厉和无情——难以打动的眼睛和微微扬起的专横独断的眉毛，曾有多少次俯视我，射来恫吓和仇视的目光！此刻重睹那冷酷的线条，我童年时恐怖与悲伤的记忆又统统复活了！然而我还是弯下身子，吻了吻她。她朝我看看。“Is this Jane Eyre?” she said.“是简•爱吗？”她说。“Yes, Aunt Reed.  How are you, dear aunt?”“是的，里德舅妈。你好吗，舅妈？”I had once vowed that I would never call her aunt again: I thought it no sin to forget and break that vow now.  My fingers had fastened on her hand which lay outside the sheet: had she pressed mine kindly, I should at that moment have experienced true pleasure.  But unimpressionable natures are not so soon softened, nor are natural antipathies so readily eradicated.  Mrs. Reed took her hand away, and, turning her face rather from me, she remarked that the night was warm.  我曾发誓永远不再叫她舅妈。我想此刻忘却和违背自己的誓言并不是罪过。我紧握住她搁在被头外面的手。要是她和气地握一握我的手，此刻我会由衷地感到愉快，但是顽固的本性不是立刻就能感化的，天生的反感也并非轻易就能消除。里德太太抽出了手，转过脸去，说了声夜晚很暖和。Again she regarded me so icily, I felt at once that her opinion of me—her feeling towards me—was unchanged and unchangeable.  I knew by her stony eye—opaque to tenderness, indissoluble to tears—that she was resolved to consider me bad to the last; because to believe me good would give her no generous pleasure: only a sense of mortification.她再次冷冰冰地凝视着我，我立刻感觉到她对我的看法——对我所怀的情感——没有改变，也是不可改变的。从她那温情透不过、眼泪冶不了，犹如石头一般的眼睛里，我知道她决心到死都认定我很坏了，因为相信我是好人并不能给她带来愉快，而只会是一种屈辱感。I felt pain, and then I felt ire; and then I felt a determination to subdue her—to be her mistress in spite both of her nature and her will.  My tears had risen, just as in childhood: I ordered them back to their source.  I brought a chair to the bed-head: I sat down and leaned over the pillow.我先是感到痛苦，随后感到恼火，最后便感到决心要制服她——不管她的本性和意志如何顽强，我要压倒她。像儿时一样，我的眼泪涌了上来，但我把它制住了。我将一把椅子挪到床头边，坐了下来，俯身向着枕头。“You sent for me,” I said, “and I am here; and it is my intention to stay till I see how you get on.”“你派人叫我来，”我说，“现在我来了，我想呆在这儿看看你的身体情况如何。”“Oh, of course!  You have seen my daughters?”“呵，当然：你看见我女儿了吗？”“Yes.”“看到了。”“Well, you may tell them I wish you to stay till I can talk some things over with you I have on my mind: to-night it is too late, and I have a difficulty in recalling them.  But there was something I wished to say—let me see—”“好吧，那你可以告诉她们，我希望你呆着，直到我能谈谈一些我心里想着的事情。今天夜里已经太晚了，而且回忆起来有困难。不过有些事情我很想说——让我想想看——”The wandering look and changed utterance told what wreck had taken place in her once vigorous frame.  Turning restlessly, she drew the bedclothes round her; my elbow, resting on a corner of the quilt, fixed it down: she was at once irritated.游移的目光和走了样的语调表明，她那一度精力旺盛的肌体，已经元气大伤。她焦躁地翻着身，用被头将自己裹好，我的一只胳膊时正好搁在被角上，把它压住了，她立刻非常恼火。“Sit up!” said she; “don’t annoy me with holding the clothes fast.  Are you Jane Eyre?”“坐直了！”她说，“别那么死压着被头让我生气——你是简•爱吗？”“I am Jane Eyre.”“我是简•爱。”“I have had more trouble with that child than any one would believe.  Such a burden to be left on my hands—and so much annoyance as she caused me, daily and hourly, with her incomprehensible disposition, and her sudden starts of temper, and her continual, unnatural watchings of one’s movements!  I declare she talked to me once like something mad, or like a fiend—no child ever spoke or looked as she did; I was glad to get her away from the house.  What did they do with her at Lowood?  The fever broke out there, and many of the pupils died.  She, however, did not die: but I said she did—I wish she had died!”“谁都不知道这个孩子给我造成了多大麻烦。这么大一个包袱落在我手里——她的性情让人摸不透，她的脾气说发就发，她还总是怪里怪气窥探别人的行动，这些每日每时都给我带来那么多烦恼：我说呀，有一次她同我说话，像是发了疯似的，或者活象一个魔鬼——没有哪个孩子会像她那样说话或看人。我很高兴把她从这里打发走了。在罗沃德他们是怎么对付她的呢？那里爆发了热病，很多孩子都死了。而她居然没有死。不过我说过她死了——但愿她已经死了！”“A strange wish, Mrs. Reed; why do you hate her so?”“一个奇怪的愿望，里德太太，你为什么竟会这么恨她呢？”“I had a dislike to her mother always; for she was my husband’s only sister, and a great favourite with him: he opposed the family’s disowning her when she made her low marriage; and when news came of her death, he wept like a simpleton.  He would send for the baby; though I entreated him rather to put it out to nurse and pay for its maintenance.  I hated it the first time I set my eyes on it—a sickly, whining, pining thing!  It would wail in its cradle all night long—not screaming heartily like any other child, but whimpering and moaning.  Reed pitied it; and he used to nurse it and notice it as if it had been his own: more, indeed, than he ever noticed his own at that age.  He would try to make my children friendly to the little beggar: the darlings could not bear it, and he was angry with them when they showed their dislike.  In his last illness, he had it brought continually to his bedside; and but an hour before he died, he bound me by vow to keep the creature.  I would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out of a workhouse: but he was weak, naturally weak.  John does not at all resemble his father, and I am glad of it: John is like me and like my brothers—he is quite a Gibson.  Oh, I wish he would cease tormenting me with letters for money?  “我一直讨厌她母亲，因为她是我丈夫唯一的妹妹，很讨他喜欢。家里因为她下嫁而同她脱离了关系，他坚决反对。她的死讯传来时，他哭得像个傻瓜。他要把孩子去领来，尽管我求他还是送出去让人喂养，付养育费好。我头一回见了便讨厌她——完全是个哭哭啼啼身体有病的东西！她会在摇篮里整夜哭个不停——不像别的孩子那样放开喉咙大哭，而是咿咿呀呀，哼哼唧唧。里德怜她，亲自喂她，仿佛自己孩子似地关心她。说实在，自己的孩子在那个年纪他还没有那么花心思呢。他要我的孩子跟这个小讨饭友好相处，宝贝们受不了，露出对她的讨厌，里德为此非常生气。他病重的日子，还不住地叫人把她抱到他床边，而临终前一小时让我立誓抚养她。我情愿养育一个从济贫院里出来的小叫化子。可是他软弱，生性软弱。约翰一点不象他父亲，我为此感到高兴。约翰象我，象我的兄弟们——一个十足的吉卜森家的人。呵，但愿他不要老是写信讨钱来折磨我！I have no more money to give him: we are getting poor.  I must send away half the servants and shut up part of the house; or let it off.  I can never submit to do that—yet how are we to get on?  Two-thirds of my income goes in paying the interest of mortgages.  John gambles dreadfully, and always loses—poor boy!  He is beset by sharpers: John is sunk and degraded—his look is frightful—I feel ashamed for him when I see him.”我已经没有钱可以给他了。我们穷了。我得打发掉一半的佣人，关掉部分房子，或者租出去。我从来不忍心这么做——可是日子怎么过呢？我三分之二的收入都付了抵押的利息。约翰赌得厉害，又总是输——可怜的孩子！他陷进了赌棍窝里。约翰名誉扫地，完全堕落了——他的样子很可怕——我见到他就为他感到丢脸。”She was getting much excited.  “I think I had better leave her now,” said I to Bessie, who stood on the other side of the bed.她变得十分激动。“我想现在还是离开她好。”我对站在床另一边的贝茜说。“Perhaps you had, Miss: but she often talks in this way towards night—in the morning she is calmer.”“也许是这样，小姐，不过晚上她老是这么说话的——早上比较镇静。”I rose.  “Stop!” exclaimed Mrs. Reed, “there is another thing I wished to say.  He threatens me—he continually threatens me with his own death, or mine: and I dream sometimes that I see him laid out with a great wound in his throat, or with a swollen and blackened face.  I am come to a strange pass: I have heavy troubles.  What is to be done?  How is the money to be had?”我立起身来。“站住！”里德太太叫道。“还有件事我要同你说。他威胁我——不断地用他的死或我的死来威胁我。有时我梦见他躺着，喉咙上一个大窟隆，或者一脸鼻青眼肿。我已经闯入了一个奇怪的关口，困难重重。该怎么办呢？钱从哪儿来？”Bessie now endeavoured to persuade her to take a sedative draught: she succeeded with difficulty.  Soon after, Mrs. Reed grew more composed, and sank into a dozing state.  I then left her.此刻，贝茜竭力劝她服用镇静剂，费了好大劲才说服她。里德太太很快镇静下来了，陷入了昏睡状态，随后我便离开了她。More than ten days elapsed before I had again any conversation with her.  She continued either delirious or lethargic; and the doctor forbade everything which could painfully excite her.  Meantime, I got on as well as I could with Georgiana and Eliza.  They were very cold, indeed, at first.  Eliza would sit half the day sewing, reading, or writing, and scarcely utter a word either to me or her sister.  Georgiana would chatter nonsense to her canary bird by the hour, and take no notice of me.  But I was determined not to seem at a loss for occupation or amusement: I had brought my drawing materials with me, and they served me for both.十多天过去了我才再次同她交谈。她仍旧昏迷不醒或是恹恹无力。医生禁止一切会痛苦地使她激动的事情。同时，我尽力跟乔治亚娜和伊丽莎处好关系。说实在她们起初十分冷淡。伊丽莎会老半天坐着，缝呀，读呀，写呀，对我或是她妹妹不吭一声。这时候乔治亚娜会对着她的金丝雀胡说一通，而不理睬我。但我决计不显出无所事事，或是不知如何消磨时光的样子。我带来了绘画工具，既使自己有事可做，又有了消遣。Provided with a case of pencils, and some sheets of paper, I used to take a seat apart from them, near the window, and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes, representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination: a glimpse of sea between two rocks; the rising moon, and a ship crossing its disk; a group of reeds and water-flags, and a naiad’s head, crowned with lotus-flowers, rising out of them; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow’s nest, under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom.我拿了画笔和画纸，远离她们，在一个靠窗的地方坐下，忙乎着画一些幻想的人头象，表现瞬息万变万花筒似的想象世界中刹那间出现的景象。例如，两块岩石之间的一片大海，初升的月亮，横穿月亮的一条船，一丛芦苇和景象，一个仙女头戴荷花从中探出头来，一个小精灵坐在一圈山楂花下的篱雀窝里。One morning I fell to sketching a face: what sort of a face it was to be, I did not care or know.  I took a soft black pencil, gave it a broad point, and worked away.  Soon I had traced on the paper a broad and prominent forehead and a square lower outline of visage: that contour gave me pleasure; my fingers proceeded actively to fill it with features.  Strongly-marked horizontal eyebrows must be traced under that brow; then followed, naturally, a well-defined nose, with a straight ridge and full nostrils; then a flexible-looking mouth, by no means narrow; then a firm chin, with a decided cleft down the middle of it: of course, some black whiskers were wanted, and some jetty hair, tufted on the temples, and waved above the forehead.  Now for the eyes: I had left them to the last, because they required the most careful working.  I drew them large; I shaped them well: the eyelashes I traced long and sombre; the irids lustrous and large.  “Good! but not quite the thing,” I thought, as I surveyed the effect: “they want more force and spirit;” and I wrought the shades blacker, that the lights might flash more brilliantly—a happy touch or two secured success.  There, I had a friend’s face under my gaze; and what did it signify that those young ladies turned their backs on me?  I looked at it; I smiled at the speaking likeness: I was absorbed and content.一天早晨，我开始画一张脸，至于一张什么样的脸，我既不在乎，也不知道。我取了一支黑色软铅笔，把笔尖留得粗粗的，画了起来。我立刻在纸上勾勒出了一个又宽又突的前额和下半个脸方方正正的轮廓。这个外形使我感到愉快，我的手指赶忙填上了五官，在额头下得画两道平直显眼的眉毛，下面自然是线条清晰的鼻子，笔直的鼻梁和大大的鼻孔，随后是看上去很灵活长得不小的嘴巴，再后是坚毅的下巴，中间有一个明显的裂痕。当然还缺黑黑的络腮胡，以及乌黑的头发，一簇簇长在两鬓和波浪似地生有前额。现在要画眼睛了，我把它们留到最后，因为最需要小心从事。我把眼睛画得很大，形状很好，长而浅黑的睫毛，大而发亮的眼珠。“行！不过不完全如此，”我一边观察效果，一边思忖道：“它们还缺乏力量和神采。”我把暗处加深，好让明亮处更加光芒闪烁——巧妙地抹上一笔两笔，便达到了这种效果。这样，在我的目光下就显出了一位朋友的面孔，那几位小姐对我不理睬又有什么外系呢？我瞧着它，对着逼真的画面微笑，全神贯注，心满意足。“Is that a portrait of some one you know?” asked Eliza, who had approached me unnoticed.  I responded that it was merely a fancy head, and hurried it beneath the other sheets.  Of course, I lied: it was, in fact, a very faithful representation of Mr. Rochester.  But what was that to her, or to any one but myself?  Georgiana also advanced to look.  The other drawings pleased her much, but she called that “an ugly man.” They both seemed surprised at my skill.  I offered to sketch their portraits; and each, in turn, sat for a pencil outline.  Then Georgiana produced her album.  I promised to contribute a water-colour drawing: this put her at once into good humour.  She proposed a walk in the grounds.  Before we had been out two hours, we were deep in a confidential conversation: she had favoured me with a description of the brilliant winter she had spent in London two seasons ago—of the admiration she had there excited—the attention she had received; and I even got hints of the titled conquest she had made.  In the course of the afternoon and evening these hints were enlarged on: various soft conversations were reported, and sentimental scenes represented; and, “那是你熟人的一幅肖像吗，”伊丽莎问，她己悄悄地走近了我。我回答说，这不过是凭空想象的一个头，一面赶忙把它塞到其它画纸底下。当然我扯了个谎，其实那是对罗切斯特先生的真实刻划。但那跟她，或是除我之外随便哪个人有什么关系呢？乔治亚娜也溜过来看看。她对别的画都很满意，却把那一幅说成是“一个丑陋的男人”，她们两个对我的技艺感到吃惊，我表示要为她们画肖像，两人轮流坐着让我打铅笔草图。随后乔治亚娜拿出了她的画册。我答应画一幅水彩画让她收进去，她听了情绪立刻好转，建议到庭园里去走走，出去还不到两个小时，我们便无话不谈了。她向我描述了两个社交季节之前在伦敦度过的辉煌的冬天——如何受到倾慕——如何引人注目，甚至暗示还征服了一些贵族。那天下午和晚上，她把这些暗示又加以扩充，转述各类情意绵绵的交谈，描绘了不少多愁善感的场面。in short, a volume of a novel of fashionable life was that day improvised by her for my benefit.  The communications were renewed from day to day: they always ran on the same theme—herself, her loves, and woes.  It was strange she never once adverted either to her mother’s illness, or her brother’s death, or the present gloomy state of the family prospects.  Her mind seemed wholly taken up with reminiscences of past gaiety, and aspirations after dissipations to come.  She passed about five minutes each day in her mother’s sick-room, and no more.总之那天她为我临时编造了一部时髦生活的小说。谈话一天天继续着，始终围绕着一个主题——她自己，她的爱情和苦恼。很奇怪，她一次也没有提到母亲的病和哥哥的死，也没有说起眼下一家的暗淡前景。她似乎满脑子都是对昔曰欢乐的回忆和对未来放荡的向往，每天在她母亲的病榻前只呆上五分钟。Eliza still spoke little: she had evidently no time to talk.  I never saw a busier person than she seemed to be; yet it was difficult to say what she did: or rather, to discover any result of her diligence.  She had an alarm to call her up early.  I know not how she occupied herself before breakfast, but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions, and each hour had its allotted task.  Three times a day she studied a little book, which I found, on inspection, was a Common Prayer Book.  I asked her once what was the great attraction of that volume, and she said, “the Rubric.”  Three hours she gave to stitching, with gold thread, the border of a square crimson cloth, almost large enough for a carpet.  In answer to my inquiries after the use of this article, she informed me it was a covering for the altar of a new church lately erected near Gateshead.  Two hours she devoted to her diary; two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden; and one to the regulation of her accounts.  She seemed to want no company; no conversation.  I believe she was happy in her way: this routine sufficed for her; and nothing annoyed her so much as the occurrence of any incident which forced her to vary its clockwork regularity.伊丽莎依然不大开口。显然她没有工夫说话，我从来没有见过一位象她看上去那么忙的人，可是很难说她在忙些什么，或者不如说很难发现她忙碌的结果。她有一个闹钟催她早起。我不知道早饭前她干些什么，但饭后她把自己的时间分成固定的部分，每个小时都有规定的任务。她一天三次研读一本小书，我仔细一看，原来是本祈祷书。一次我问她，书中最吸引人的是什么，她说“仪式指示。”三个小时用于缝纫，用金线给一块方形红布上边，这块布足有地毯那么大。我问起它的用途，她告诉我是盖在一个新教堂祭坛上的罩布，这个教堂新近建于盖茨黑德附近。二个小时用来写日记，二个小时在菜园子里劳动，一个小时用来算帐。她似乎不需要人作伴，也不需要交谈。我相信她一定自得其乐，满足于这么按部就班地行事，而没有比那种偶发事件迫使她改变钟表般准确的规律性，更使她恼火的了。She told me one evening, when more disposed to be communicative than usual, that John’s conduct, and the threatened ruin of the family, had been a source of profound affliction to her: but she had now, she said, settled her mind, and formed her resolution.  Her own fortune she had taken care to secure; and when her mother died—and it was wholly improbable, she tranquilly remarked, that she should either recover or linger long—she would execute a long-cherished project: seek a retirement where punctual habits would be permanently secured from disturbance, and place safe barriers between herself and a frivolous world.  I asked if Georgiana would accompany her.一天晚上，她比往常话要多些，告诉我约翰的行为和家庭濒临毁灭的威胁是她烦恼的根源。但她说现在已经静下心来，下定了决心。她已注意保住自己的财产，一旦她母亲去世——她冷静地说，母亲己不可能康复或者拖得很久——她将实现自己盘算已久的计划，寻找一个归隐之处，使自己一板一眼的习惯不受干扰，用一个安全的屏障把她和浮华的世界隔开。我问她，乔治亚娜是不是会陪伴她。“Of course not.  Georgiana and she had nothing in common: they never had had.  She would not be burdened with her society for any consideration.  Georgiana should take her own course; and she, Eliza, would take hers.”当然不会，乔治亚娜和她没有共同之处，从来没有过。无论如何她不能同她作伴，让自己受累。乔治亚娜应当走她的路，而她伊丽莎也会走自己的路。Georgiana, when not unburdening her heart to me, spent most of her time in lying on the sofa, fretting about the dulness of the house, and wishing over and over again that her aunt Gibson would send her an invitation up to town.  “It would be so much better,” she said, “if she could only get out of the way for a month or two, till all was over.”  I did not ask what she meant by “all being over,” but I suppose she referred to the expected decease of her mother and the gloomy sequel of funeral rites.  Eliza generally took no more notice of her sister’s indolence and complaints than if no such murmuring, lounging object had been before her.  One day, however, as she put away her account-book and unfolded her embroidery, she suddenly took her up thus—乔治亚娜不向我吐露心声的时候大都躺在沙发上，为家里的乏味而发愁，一再希望吉卜森舅妈会寄来邀请信，请她上城里去。她说要是她能避开一、两个月，等一切都过去，那是再好不过了。我并没有问她“一切都过去”的含意，但我猜想她指的是意料中母亲的死，以及阴沉的葬礼余波。伊丽莎对妹妹的懒散和怨言并不在意，仿佛她面前并不存在这个叽叽咕咕、无所事事的家伙。不过有一天，她放好帐册，打开绣花活计时，突然责备起她来：“Georgiana, a more vain and absurd animal than you was certainly never allowed to cumber the earth.  You had no right to be born, for you make no use of life.  Instead of living for, in, and with yourself, as a reasonable being ought, you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person’s strength: if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat, weak, puffy, useless thing, you cry out that you are ill-treated, neglected, miserable.  Then, too, existence for you must be a scene of continual change and excitement, or else the world is a dungeon: you must be admired, you must be courted, you must be flattered—you must have music, dancing, and society—or you languish, you die away.  Have you no sense to devise a system which will make you independent of all efforts, and all wills, but your own?  Take one day; share it into sections; to each section apportion its task: leave no stray unemployed quarters of an hour, ten minutes, five minutes—include all; do each piece of business in its turn with method, with rigid regularity.  The day will close almost before you are aware it has begun; and you are indebted to no one for helping you to get rid of one vacant moment: you have had to seek no one’s company, conversation, sympathy, forbearance; you have lived, in short, as an independent being ought to do.  Take this advice: the first and last I shall offer you; then you will not want me or any one else, happen what may.  Neglect it—go on as heretofore, craving, whining, and idling—and suffer the results of your idiocy, however bad and insuperable they may be.  I tell you this plainly; and listen: for though I shall no more repeat what I am now about to say, I shall steadily act on it.  After my mother’s death, I wash my hands of you: from the day her coffin is carried to the vault in Gateshead Church, you and I will be as separate as if we had never known each other.  You need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents, I shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim: I can tell you this—if the whole human race, ourselves excepted, were swept away, and we two stood alone on the earth, I would leave you in the old world, and betake myself to the new.”“乔治亚娜，在地球上过日子的动物中，没有比你更爱虚荣更荒唐了。你没有权利生下来，因为你空耗了生命。你没有象一个有理智的人该做的那样，为自己生活，安分守己地生活，靠自己生活，而是仰仗别的人力量来支撑你的软弱。要是找不到谁愿意背这个肥胖、娇弱、自负、无用的包袱，你会大叫，说人家亏待了你，冷落了你，使你痛苦不堪。而且，在你看来，生活该是变化无穷，激动非凡的一幕，不然世界就是监狱。你要人家爱慕你，追求你，恭维你——你得有音乐、舞会和社交活动——要不你就神衰力竭，一天天憔悴。难道你就没有头脑想出一套办法来，不依赖别人的努力，别人的意志，而只靠你自己？以一天为例，你就把它分成几份，每份钟规定好任务，全部时间都包括在内，不留一刻钟、十分钟、五分钟的零星空闲时间。干每一件事都应当井然有序，有条不紊。这样，一天的日子，你几乎没有觉察它开始，就已经结束了。你就不欠谁的情，帮你消磨片刻空闲。你不必找人作伴和交谈，不必请求别人的同情和忍耐。总之，你象一个独立的人该生活的那样生活。听从我的劝告吧，我给你的第一个，也是最后一个忠告。那样，无论出什么事，你就不需要我，也不需要别人了。要是你置之不理——一意孤行，还是那样想入非非，叽叽咕咕，懒懒散散，你就得吞下你愚蠢行为的苦果，不管怎么糟糕，怎么难受。我要明白告诉你，你好好听着。尽管我不会再重复我要说的话，但我会坚定不移地去做。母亲一死，你的事我就撒手不管了。从她的棺材抬进盖茨黑德教堂墓地那天起，你我便彼此分手，仿佛从来就是陌路人。你不要以为我们碰巧摊着同一个爹娘，我会让你以丝毫站不住脚的理由拖累我。我可以告诉你——就是除了你我，整个人类毁灭了，独有我们两人站在地球上，我也会让你留在旧世界，自己奔往新世界去。”She closed her lips.她闭了嘴。“You might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that tirade,” answered Georgiana.  “Everybody knows you are the most selfish, heartless creature in existence: and I know your spiteful hatred towards me: I have had a specimen of it before in the trick you played me about Lord Edwin Vere: you could not bear me to be raised above you, to have a title, to be received into circles where you dare not show your face, and so you acted the spy and informer, and ruined my prospects for ever.”  Georgiana took out her handkerchief and blew her nose for an hour afterwards; Eliza sat cold, impassable, and assiduously industrious.“你还是少费心思发表长篇大论了，”乔治亚娜回答说，“谁都知道你是世上最自私、最狠心的家伙，我明白你对我有刻骨仇恨，我掌握真凭实据。你在埃德温．维尔勋爵的事情上，对我耍了花招。你不能容忍我爬得比你高，获得贵族爵位，被你连面都不敢露的社交圈子所接纳。因此你暗中监视，进行密告，永远毁了我的前程。”乔治亚娜掏出手帕，擤了一小时鼻子，伊丽莎冷冷地坐着，无动于衷，顾自忙着自己的活儿。True, generous feeling is made small account of by some, but here were two natures rendered, the one intolerably acrid, the other despicably savourless for the want of it.  Feeling without judgment is a washy draught indeed; but judgment untempered by feeling is too bitter and husky a morsel for human deglutition.确实，宽厚的感情不被有些人所重视。而这儿的两种性格，却因为少了它，一种刻薄得叫人难以容忍，而另一种枯燥乏味得可鄙。没有理智的感情固然淡而无味，但缺乏感情的理智也太苦涩粗糙，叫人难以下咽。It was a wet and windy afternoon: Georgiana had fallen asleep on the sofa over the perusal of a novel; Eliza was gone to attend a saint’s-day service at the new church—for in matters of religion she was a rigid formalist: no weather ever prevented the punctual discharge of what she considered her devotional duties; fair or foul, she went to church thrice every Sunday, and as often on week-days as there were prayers.一个风雨交加的下午，乔治亚娜看着一部小说，便倒在沙发上睡着了。伊丽莎已经去新教堂参加万圣节仪式——因为在宗教方面，她十分看重形式，风雨无阻，按时履行着心中虔诚的义务。不论天好天坏，每个星期上教堂三次，平时如有祷告要做，也一样频繁。I bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped, who lay there almost unheeded: the very servants paid her but a remittent attention: the hired nurse, being little looked after, would slip out of the room whenever she could.  Bessie was faithful; but she had her own family to mind, and could only come occasionally to the hall.  I found the sick-room unwatched, as I had expected: no nurse was there; the patient lay still, and seemingly lethargic; her livid face sunk in the pillows: the fire was dying in the grate.  I renewed the fuel, re-arranged the bedclothes, gazed awhile on her who could not now gaze on me, and then I moved away to the window.我想起要上楼去，看看这个生命垂危的女人病情如何。她躺在那里，几乎没有人照料，佣人们化的心思时多时少；雇佣来的护士，因为没有人看管，想溜就溜。贝茜固然忠心耿耿，但也有自己的家要照应，只能偶尔到府上来。不出所料，我发觉病室里没有人照看，护士不在。病人静静地躺着，似乎在昏睡，铅灰色的脸陷入了枕头，炉中的火将灭未灭。我添了燃料，重新收拾了床单，眼睛盯了她一会儿。这时，她已无法盯我了。随后我走开去到了窗前。The rain beat strongly against the panes, the wind blew tempestuously: “One lies there,” I thought, “who will soon be beyond the war of earthly elements.  Whither will that spirit—now struggling to quit its material tenement—flit when at length released?”大雨敲窗，狂风呼啸。“那个躺在那儿的人，”我想，“会很快离开人世间风风雨雨的战场。此刻，灵魂正挣扎着脱离物质的躯壳，一旦解脱，将会到哪里去呢？”In pondering the great mystery, I thought of Helen Burns, recalled her dying words—her faith—her doctrine of the equality of disembodied souls.  I was still listening in thought to her well-remembered tones—still picturing her pale and spiritual aspect, her wasted face and sublime gaze, as she lay on her placid deathbed, and whispered her longing to be restored to her divine Father’s bosom—when a feeble voice murmured from the couch behind: “Who is that?”在思索这番伟大的秘密时，我想起了海伦，回忆起她临终时说的话——她的信仰——她的关于游魂平等的信条。心里仍倾听着记忆犹新的声调——仍然描摹着她苍白而脱俗的容貌，消瘦的脸庞和崇高的目光。那时她平静地躺在临终的病榻上，低声地倾吐着要回到神圣的天父怀抱的渴望。——正想着，我身后的床上响起了微弱的响声：“是谁呀？”I knew Mrs. Reed had not spoken for days: was she reviving?  I went up to her.我知道里德太太已经几天没有说话了，难道她醒过来了？我走到她跟前。“It is I, Aunt Reed.”“是我，里德舅妈。”“Who—I?” was her answer.  “Who are you?” looking at me with surprise and a sort of alarm, but still not wildly.  “You are quite a stranger to me—where is Bessie?”“谁——我？”她回答。“你是谁？”她诧异地看着我，颇有些吃惊，但并没有失去控制。“我完全不认识你——贝茜呢？”“She is at the lodge, aunt.”“她在门房，舅妈。”“Aunt,” she repeated.  “Who calls me aunt?  You are not one of the Gibsons; and yet I know you—that face, and the eyes and forehead, are quiet familiar to me: you are like—why, you are like Jane Eyre!”“舅妈！”她重复了一声。“谁叫我舅妈来着？你不是吉卜森家的人，不过我知道你——那张面孔，那双眼睛和那个前额，我很熟悉。你像——唉，你像简•爱！”I said nothing: I was afraid of occasioning some shock by declaring my identity.我没有吭声，怕一说出我的身份会引起某种震惊，“Yet,” said she, “I am afraid it is a mistake: my thoughts deceive me.  I wished to see Jane Eyre, and I fancy a likeness where none exists: besides, in eight years she must be so changed.”  I now gently assured her that I was the person she supposed and desired me to be: and seeing that I was understood, and that her senses were quite collected, I explained how Bessie had sent her husband to fetch me from Thornfield.“可是，”她说，“恐怕这是个错觉，我的想法欺骗了我。我很想看看简•爱，我想象出跟她相似的地方，但实际并不存在，况且八年当中她的变化一定很大，”这时我和气地让她放心，我就是她设想中的人。见她明白我的意思，头脑也还镇静，我便告诉她，贝茜如何派丈夫把我从桑菲尔德叫来。”“I am very ill, I know,” she said ere long.  “I was trying to turn myself a few minutes since, and find I cannot move a limb.  It is as well I should ease my mind before I die: what we think little of in health, burdens us at such an hour as the present is to me.  Is the nurse here? or is there no one in the room but you?”“我的病很重，这我知道，”没有多久她说“几分钟之前，我一直想翻身，却发觉四肢都动弹不得。也许我没有死就该安下心来。健康时我们想得很少的事，在眼下这样的时刻，却成了我沉重的负担。护士在吗？房间里除了你，没有别人吗？”I assured her we were alone.我让她放心只有我们两个。“Well, I have twice done you a wrong which I regret now.  One was in breaking the promise which I gave my husband to bring you up as my own child; the other—” she stopped.  “After all, it is of no great importance, perhaps,” she murmured to herself: “and then I may get better; and to humble myself so to her is painful.”“唉，我两次做了对不起你的事，现在很懊悔。一次是违背了我向丈夫许下的，把你当作自己孩子抚养成人的诺言。另一次——”她停住了。“也许这毕竟无关紧要。”她喃喃地自言自语说：“那样我也许会好过些，但是，向她低声下气实在使我痛苦。”She made an effort to alter her position, but failed: her face changed; she seemed to experience some inward sensation—the precursor, perhaps, of the last pang.她挣扎着要改变一下她的位置，但没有成功。她的脸变了形。她似乎经历着某种内心的冲动——也许是最后一阵痛苦的先兆。“Well, I must get it over.  Eternity is before me: I had better tell her.—Go to my dressing-case, open it, and take out a letter you will see there.”“唉，我得了却它。永恒就在前头，我还是告诉她好。走到我化妆盒跟前去，打开它，把你看到的一封信拿出来。”I obeyed her directions.  “Read the letter,” she said.我听从她的吩咐。“把信读一读，”她说。It was short, and thus conceived:—这封信很短，内中写道：“Madam,—夫人：Will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece, Jane Eyre, and to tell me how she is?  It is my intention to write shortly and desire her to come to me at Madeira.  Providence has blessed my endeavours to secure a competency; and as I am unmarried and childless, I wish to adopt her during my life, and bequeath her at my death whatever I may have to leave.—I am, Madam, &c., &c.,烦请惠寄我侄女简•爱的地址，并告知其近况。我欲立即去信，盼她来马德里我处。皇天不负有心之人，目前我家境富裕。我未娶无后，甚望有生之年将她收为养女，并在死后将全部财产馈赠予她。顺致敬意。“John Eyre, Madeira.”约翰．爱谨启于马德里It was dated three years back.写信的时间是三年之前。“Why did I never hear of this?” I asked.“为什么我从来没有听说过这回事？”我问。“Because I disliked you too fixedly and thoroughly ever to lend a hand in lifting you to prosperity.  I could not forget your conduct to me, Jane—the fury with which you once turned on me; the tone in which you declared you abhorred me the worst of anybody in the world; the unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very thought of me made you sick, and asserted that I had treated you with miserable cruelty.  I could not forget my own sensations when you thus started up and poured out the venom of your mind: I felt fear as if an animal that I had struck or pushed had looked up at me with human eyes and cursed me in a man’s voice.—Bring me some water!  Oh, make haste!”“因为我对你的厌恶已经根深蒂固，因此不愿意帮助你发迹。我忘不了你对我的举动，简——你一度冲我而发的火气；你说你在世上最讨厌我时的腔调；你声言一想起我就使你恶心、我待你很冷酷时丝毫不像孩子的神情与口气。我也忘不了你惊跳起来，把心头的一腔毒气喷吐出来时，我自己的感受。我觉得害怕，仿佛我打过推过的动物，用人一样的目光瞧着我，用人一样的嗓门儿，诅咒我——拿些水来！唉，快点！”“Dear Mrs. Reed,” said I, as I offered her the draught she required, “think no more of all this, let it pass away from your mind.  Forgive me for my passionate language: I was a child then; eight, nine years have passed since that day.”“亲爱的里德太太，”我把她要的水端给她时说，“别再想这些了，你就忘了它吧，原谅我那些激烈的言词，当时我还是个孩子，现在八、九年已经过去了。”She heeded nothing of what I said; but when she had tasted the water and drawn breath, she went on thus—她对我说的话毫不理会。不过喝了水，透过气来后，她又继续说：“I tell you I could not forget it; and I took my revenge: for you to be adopted by your uncle, and placed in a state of ease and comfort, was what I could not endure.  I wrote to him; I said I was sorry for his disappointment, but Jane Eyre was dead: she had died of typhus fever at Lowood.  Now act as you please: write and contradict my assertion—expose my falsehood as soon as you like.  You were born, I think, to be my torment: my last hour is racked by the recollection of a deed which, but for you, I should never have been tempted to commit.”“我告诉你我忘不了这些，并且报复了。任你由叔叔领养，安安稳稳舒舒服服过日子，我是不能忍受的。我写信给他，说是很遗憾使他失望了，但简•爱已经去世，在罗沃德死于斑疹伤寒。现在随你怎么办吧，写封信否认我的说法——尽快揭露我的谎话。我想，你生来就是我的冤家。只剩一口气了，还让我叨念过去的事来折磨我，要不是因为你，我是不会经不住诱惑，去干那种事的。”“If you could but be persuaded to think no more of it, aunt, and to regard me with kindness and forgiveness”“但愿你能听从劝告，忘掉这些，舅妈，宽容慈祥地对待我——”“You have a very bad disposition,” said she, “and one to this day I feel it impossible to understand: how for nine years you could be patient and quiescent under any treatment, and in the tenth break out all fire and violence, I can never comprehend.”“你的脾气很糟，”她说，“这种性格我到今天都难以理解，九年中，不管怎样对待你，你都耐着性子，默默无声，而到了第十年，却突然发作，火气冲天，我永远无法理解。”“My disposition is not so bad as you think: I am passionate, but not vindictive.  Many a time, as a little child, I should have been glad to love you if you would have let me; and I long earnestly to be reconciled to you now: kiss me, aunt.”“我的脾性并不是象你想的那么坏，我易动感情，却没有报复心。小时候，有很多次，只要你允许，我很愿意爱你。现在我诚恳希望同你和好。亲亲我吧，舅妈。”I approached my cheek to her lips: she would not touch it.  She said I oppressed her by leaning over the bed, and again demanded water.  As I laid her down—for I raised her and supported her on my arm while she drank—I covered her ice-cold and clammy hand with mine: the feeble fingers shrank from my touch—the glazing eyes shunned my gaze.我把脸颊凑向她嘴唇。她不愿碰它，还说我倚在床上压着她了，而且再次要水喝。我让她躺下时——因为我扶起她，让她靠着我的胳膊喝水——把手放在她冷冰冰，湿腻腻的手上，她衰竭无力的手指缩了回去了——迟滞的眼睛避开了我的目光。“Love me, then, or hate me, as you will,” I said at last, “you have my full and free forgiveness: ask now for God’s, and be at peace.”“那么，爱我也好，恨我也好，随你便吧，”我最后说，“反正你已经彻底得到了我的宽恕。现在你去请求上帝的宽恕，安息吧。”Poor, suffering woman! it was too late for her to make now the effort to change her habitual frame of mind: living, she had ever hated me—dying, she must hate me still.可怜而痛苦的女人！现在再要努力改变她惯有的想法，已经为时太晚了。活着的时候，她一直恨我——临终的时候，她一定依然恨我。The nurse now entered, and Bessie followed.  I yet lingered half-an-hour longer, hoping to see some sign of amity: but she gave none.  She was fast relapsing into stupor; nor did her mind again rally: at twelve o’clock that night she died.  I was not present to close her eyes, nor were either of her daughters.  They came to tell us the next morning that all was over.  She was by that time laid out.  Eliza and I went to look at her: Georgiana, who had burst out into loud weeping, said she dared not go.  There was stretched Sarah Reed’s once robust and active frame, rigid and still: her eye of flint was covered with its cold lid; her brow and strong traits wore yet the impress of her inexorable soul.  A strange and solemn object was that corpse to me.  I gazed on it with gloom and pain: nothing soft, nothing sweet, nothing pitying, or hopeful, or subduing did it inspire; only a grating anguish for her woes—not my loss—and a sombre tearless dismay at the fearfulness of death in such a form.此刻，护士进来了，后面跟着贝茜。不过我又呆了半小时，希望看到某种和解的表情，但她没有任何显露。她很快进入昏迷状态，没有再清醒过来。当晚十二点她去世了。我没有在场替她合上眼睛，她的两个女儿也不在。第二天早上她们来告诉我，一切都过去了。那时她的遗体已等候入殓，伊丽莎和我都去瞻仰，乔治亚娜嚎啕大哭，说是不敢去看。那里躺着萨拉．里德的躯体，过去是那么强健而充满生机，如今却僵硬不动了。冰冷的眼皮遮没了她无情的眸子，额头和独特的面容仍带着她冷酷灵魂的印记。对我来说，那具尸体既奇怪而又庄严。我忧伤而痛苦地凝视着它，没有激起温柔、甜蜜、惋惜，或是希望、压抑的感觉，而只是一种为她的不幸——不是我的损失——而产生的揪心的痛苦，一种害怕这么死去，心灰意冷、欲哭无泪的沮丧。Eliza surveyed her parent calmly.  After a silence of some minutes she observed—伊丽莎镇定地打量着她母亲。沉默了几分钟后，她说：“With her constitution she should have lived to a good old age: her life was shortened by trouble.”  And then a spasm constricted her mouth for an instant: as it passed away she turned and left the room, and so did I.  Neither of us had dropt a tear.“按她那样的体质，她本可以活到很老的年纪，烦恼缩短了她的寿命。”接着她的嘴抽搐了一下，过后，她转身离开了房间，我也走了。我们两人都没有流一滴眼泪。CHAPTER XXII第二十二章Mr. Rochester had given me but one week’s leave of absence: yet a month elapsed before I quitted Gateshead.  I wished to leave immediately after the funeral, but Georgiana entreated me to stay till she could get off to London, whither she was now at last invited by her uncle, Mr. Gibson, who had come down to direct his sister’s interment and settle the family affairs.  Georgiana said she dreaded being left alone with Eliza; from her she got neither sympathy in her dejection, support in her fears, nor aid in her preparations; so I bore with her feeble-minded wailings and selfish lamentations as well as I could, and did my best in sewing for her and packing her dresses.  It is true, that while I worked, she would idle; and I thought to myself, “If you and I were destined to live always together, cousin, we would commence matters on a different footing.  I should not settle tamely down into being the forbearing party; I should assign you your share of labour, and compel you to accomplish it, or else it should be left undone: I should insist, also, on your keeping some of those drawling, half-insincere complaints hushed in your own breast.  It is only because our connection happens to be very transitory, and comes at a peculiarly mournful season, that I consent thus to render it so patient and compliant on my part.”罗切斯特先生只准许我缺席一周，但我还没有离开盖茨黑德，一个月就已经过去了。我希望葬礼后立即动身，乔治亚娜却恳求我一直呆到她去伦敦，因为来这里张罗姐姐的葬礼和解决家庭事务的吉卜森舅舅，终于邀请她上那儿了。乔治亚娜害怕同伊丽莎单独相处，说是情绪低沉时得不到她的同情；胆怯时得不到她的支持；收拾行装时得不到她的帮助。所以乔治亚娜软弱无能、畏首畏尾、自私自利、怨天尤人，我都尽量忍受，并力尽所能替她做针线活，收拾衣装。确实，我忙着时她会闲着不干事。我暗自思讨道：“要是你我注定要一直共同生活，表姐，我们要重新处事，与以往全然不同。我不该乖乖地成为忍受的一方，而该把你的一份活儿分派给你，迫使你去完成，要不然就让它留着不做。我还该坚持让你那慢条斯理、半真半假的诉苦咽到你肚子里去。正是因为我们之间的关系十分短暂，偏又遇上特殊的凭吊期间，所以我才甘愿忍耐和屈从。”At last I saw Georgiana off; but now it was Eliza’s turn to request me to stay another week.  Her plans required all her time and attention, she said; she was about to depart for some unknown bourne; and all day long she stayed in her own room, her door bolted within, filling trunks, emptying drawers, burning papers, and holding no communication with any one.  She wished me to look after the house, to see callers, and answer notes of condolence.我终于送别了乔治亚娜、可是现在却轮到了伊丽莎要求我再呆一周了。她说她的计划需要她全力以赴，因为就要动身去某个未知的目的地了。她成天闩了门呆在房间里，装箱子，理抽屉，烧文件，同谁都不来往。她希望我替她看管房子，接待来客，回复唁函。One morning she told me I was at liberty.  “And,” she added, “I am obliged to you for your valuable services and discreet conduct!  There is some difference between living with such an one as you and with Georgiana: you perform your own part in life and burden no one.  To-morrow,” she continued, “I set out for the Continent.  I shall take up my abode in a religious house near Lisle—a nunnery you would call it; there I shall be quiet and unmolested.  I shall devote myself for a time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas, and to a careful study of the workings of their system: if I find it to be, as I half suspect it is, the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order, I shall embrace the tenets of Rome and probably take the veil.”一天早晨她告诉我没有我的事了。“而且，”她补充道，“我感激你宝贵的帮助和周到的办事。跟你共处和跟乔治亚娜共处，有所不同。你在生活中尽自己的责任，而不成为别人的负担。明天，”她继续说，“我要动身去大陆。我会在里斯尔附近一家寺院找到栖身之所——你会称它为修道院。在那里我会安静度日，不受干扰。我会暂时致力于考察罗马天主教信条，和细心研究它体制的运转。我虽然半信半疑，但要是发现它最适宜于使一切事情办得公平合理，井井有条，那我会皈依罗马教，很可能还会去当修女。”I neither expressed surprise at this resolution nor attempted to dissuade her from it.  “The vocation will fit you to a hair,” I thought: “much good may it do you!”我既没有对她的决定表示惊奇，也没有劝说她打消这个念头。“这一行对你再适合不过了，”我想，“但愿对你大有好处！”When we parted, she said: “Good-bye, cousin Jane Eyre; I wish you well: you have some sense.”我们分手时她说：“再见，简•爱表妹，祝你走运，你还是有些见识的。”I then returned: “You are not without sense, cousin Eliza; but what you have, I suppose, in another year will be walled up alive in a French convent.  However, it is not my business, and so it suits you, I don’t much care.”我随后回答道：“你也不是没有见识，伊丽莎表姐。但再过一年，我想你的禀赋会被活活地囚禁在法国修道院的围墙之内。不过这不是我的事儿，反正对你适合——我并不太在乎。”“You are in the right,” said she; and with these words we each went our separate way.  As I shall not have occasion to refer either to her or her sister again, I may as well mention here, that Georgiana made an advantageous match with a wealthy worn-out man of fashion, and that Eliza actually took the veil, and is at this day superior of the convent where she passed the period of her novitiate, and which she endowed with her fortune.“你说得很对，”她说。我们彼此说了这几句话后，便分道扬镳了。由于我没有机会再提起她或她妹妹了，我不妨在这儿说一下吧。乔治亚娜在婚事上得以高攀，嫁给了上流社会一个年老力衰的有钱男子。伊丽莎果真做了修女，度过了一段见习期后，现在做了修道院院长，并把全部财产赠给了修道院。How people feel when they are returning home from an absence, long or short, I did not know: I had never experienced the sensation.  I had known what it was to come back to Gateshead when a child after a long walk, to be scolded for looking cold or gloomy; and later, what it was to come back from church to Lowood, to long for a plenteous meal and a good fire, and to be unable to get either.  Neither of these returnings was very pleasant or desirable: no magnet drew me to a given point, increasing in its strength of attraction the nearer I came.  The return to Thornfield was yet to be tried.无论是短期还是长期外出回家的人是什么滋味，我并不知道，因为我从来没有这种感受。但我知道，小时候走了很远的路后回到盖茨黑德府，因为显得怕冷或情绪低沉而挨骂是什么滋味。后来，我也知道，从教堂里回到罗沃德，渴望一顿丰盛的饭菜和熊熊的炉火，结果却两者都落空时，又是什么滋味。那几次归途并不愉快，也不令人向往，因为没有一种磁力吸引我奔向目标，不是离得越近越具诱人的力量。这次返回桑菲尔德是什么滋味，还有待于体味。My journey seemed tedious—very tedious: fifty miles one day, a night spent at an inn; fifty miles the next day.  During the first twelve hours I thought of Mrs. Reed in her last moments; I saw her disfigured and discoloured face, and heard her strangely altered voice.  I mused on the funeral day, the coffin, the hearse, the black train of tenants and servants—few was the number of relatives—the gaping vault, the silent church, the solemn service.  Then I thought of Eliza and Georgiana; I beheld one the cynosure of a ball-room, the other the inmate of a convent cell; and I dwelt on and analysed their separate peculiarities of person and character.  The evening arrival at the great town of—scattered these thoughts; night gave them quite another turn: laid down on my traveller’s bed, I left reminiscence for anticipation.旅途似乎有些乏味——很乏味。白天走五十英里，晚上投宿于旅店。第二天又走五十英里。最初十二个小时，我想起了里德太太临终的时刻。我看见了她变了形相、没有血色的脸，听见了她出奇地走了样的声调。我默默地忆起了出丧的日子，还有棺材、棂车、黑黑的一队佃户和佣人——亲戚参加的不多——张开的墓穴、寂静的教堂、庄严的仪式。随后我想起了伊丽莎和乔治亚娜。我看见一个是舞场中的皇后，另一个是修道院陋室的居士。我继续思索着，分析了她们各自的个性和品格。傍晚时抵达某个大城镇，驱散了这些想法。夜间，我的思绪转了向。我躺在这远游者的床榻上，撇开回忆，开始了对未来的向往。I was going back to Thornfield: but how long was I to stay there?  Not long; of that I was sure.  I had heard from Mrs. Fairfax in the interim of my absence: the party at the hall was dispersed; Mr. Rochester had left for London three weeks ago, but he was then expected to return in a fortnight.  Mrs. Fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding, as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage: she said the idea of his marrying Miss Ingram still seemed strange to her; but from what everybody said, and from what she had herself seen, she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place.  


“You would be strangely incredulous if you did doubt it,” was my mental comment.  “I don’t doubt it.”我正在回桑菲尔德的归途中，可是我会在那儿呆多久呢？我确信不会太久。在外期间，费尔法克斯太太写信告诉我，府上的聚会已经散去，罗切斯特先生三周前动身上伦敦去了，不过预定二周后就返回。费尔法克斯太太推测，他此去是为张罗婚礼的，因为曾说起要购置一辆新马车。她还说，总觉得这不免有些蹊跷，罗切斯特先生尽想着要娶英格拉姆小姐。不过从大家说的和她亲眼见的来看，她不再怀疑婚礼很快就会举行。







“要是连这也怀疑，那你真是疑心病重得出奇了。”我心里嘀咕着。“我并不怀疑。”The question followed, “Where was I to go?”  I dreamt of Miss Ingram all the night: in a vivid morning dream I saw her closing the gates of Thornfield against me and pointing me out another road; and Mr. Rochester looked on with his arms folded—smiling sardonically, as it seemed, at both her and me.接踵而来的是这个问题，“我上哪儿去呢？”我彻夜梦见英格拉姆小姐，在活灵活现的晨梦中，我看见她当着我关上了桑菲尔德的大门，给我指了指另外一条路。罗切斯特先生袖手旁观——似乎对英格拉姆小姐和我冷笑着。I had not notified to Mrs. Fairfax the exact day of my return; for I did not wish either car or carriage to meet me at Millcote.  I proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself; and very quietly, after leaving my box in the ostler’s care, did I slip away from the George Inn, about six o’clock of a June evening, and take the old road to Thornfield: a road which lay chiefly through fields, and was now little frequented.我没有通知费尔法克斯太太回家的确切日子，因为我不希望派普通马车或是高级马车到米尔科特来接我。我打算自己静静地走完这段路。这样，六月的某个黄昏，六时左右，我把自己的箱子交给饲马倌后，静悄悄地溜出乔治旅店，踏上了通向桑菲尔德的老路，这条路直穿田野，如今已很少有人光顾。It was not a bright or splendid summer evening, though fair and soft: the haymakers were at work all along the road; and the sky, though far from cloudless, was such as promised well for the future: its blue—where blue was visible—was mild and settled, and its cloud strata high and thin.  The west, too, was warm: no watery gleam chilled it—it seemed as if there was a fire lit, an altar burning behind its screen of marbled vapour, and out of apertures shone a golden redness.这是一个晴朗温和却并不明亮灿烂的夏夜，干草工们沿路忙碌着。天空虽然有云，却仍有好天气的兆头。天上的蓝色——在看得见蓝色的地方——柔和而稳定，云层又高又薄。西边也很暖和，没有湿润的微光来造就凉意——看上去仿佛点起了火，好似一个祭坛在大理石般雾气的屏障后面燃烧着，从缝隙中射出金色的红光。I felt glad as the road shortened before me: so glad that I stopped once to ask myself what that joy meant: and to remind reason that it was not to my home I was going, or to a permanent resting-place, or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival.  “Mrs. Fairfax will smile you a calm welcome, to be sure,” said I; “and little Adèle will clap her hands and jump to see you: but you know very well you are thinking of another than they, and that he is not thinking of you.”面前的路越走越短，我心里非常高兴，高兴得有一次竟停下脚步问自己，这种喜悦的含义何在，并提醒理智，我不是回到自己家里，或是去一个永久的安身之处，我是到一个亲密的朋友们翘首以待、等候我到达的地方。“可以肯定，费尔法克斯太太会平静地笑笑，表示欢迎，”我说，“而小阿黛勒会拍手叫好，一见我就跳起来，不过你心里很明白，你想的不是她们，而是另外一个人，而这个人却并不在想你。”But what is so headstrong as youth?  What so blind as inexperience?  These affirmed that it was pleasure enough to have the privilege of again looking on Mr. Rochester, whether he looked on me or not; and they added—“Hasten! hasten! be with him while you may: but a few more days or weeks, at most, and you are parted from him for ever!”  And then I strangled a new-born agony—a deformed thing which I could not persuade myself to own and rear—and ran on.但是，有什么比青春更任性吗？有什么比幼稚更盲目呢？青春与幼稚认定，有幸能再次见到罗切斯特先生是够令人愉快的，不管他见不见我，并且补充说：“快些！快些！在还能做到的时候跟他在一起，只要再过几天，至多几星期，你就与他永别了！”随后我抑制住了新的痛苦——我无法说服自己承认和培育的畸形儿——并继续赶路了。They are making hay, too, in Thornfield meadows: or rather, the labourers are just quitting their work, and returning home with their rakes on their shoulders, now, at the hour I arrive.  I have but a field or two to traverse, and then I shall cross the road and reach the gates.  How full the hedges are of roses!  But I have no time to gather any; I want to be at the house.  I passed a tall briar, shooting leafy and flowery branches across the path; I see the narrow stile with stone steps; and I see—Mr. Rochester sitting there, a book and a pencil in his hand; he is writing.在桑菲尔德的草地上，他们也在晒制干草呢，或者更确切些，我到达的时刻，农夫们正好下工，肩上扛着草耙回家去。我只要再走过一两块草地，就可以穿过大路，到达门口了。篱笆上长了那么多蔷薇花！但我已顾不上去采摘，巴不得立即赶到府上。我经过一棵高大的蔷薇，叶茂花盛的枝桠横穿过小径。我看到了窄小的石头台阶，我还看到——罗切斯特先生坐在那里，手中拿着一本书和一支铅笔，他在写着。Well, he is not a ghost; yet every nerve I have is unstrung: for a moment I am beyond my own mastery.  What does it mean?  I did not think I should tremble in this way when I saw him, or lose my voice or the power of motion in his presence.  I will go back as soon as I can stir: I need not make an absolute fool of myself.  I know another way to the house.  It does not signify if I knew twenty ways; for he has seen me.是呀，他不是鬼，但我的每一根神经都紧张起来。一时我无法自制。那是什么意思？我未曾想到一见他就这么颤抖起来——或者在他面前目瞪口呆，或者动弹不得。一旦我能够动弹，我一定要折回去，因为没有必要让自己变成个大傻瓜，我知道通往府上的另一条路。但是即使我认得二十条路也没有用了，因为他已经看到了我。“Hillo!” he cries; and he puts up his book and his pencil.  “There you are!  Come on, if you please.”“你好！”他叫道，丢开了书和铅笔。“你来啦！请过来。”I suppose I do come on; though in what fashion I know not; being scarcely cognisant of my movements, and solicitous only to appear calm; and, above all, to control the working muscles of my face—which I feel rebel insolently against my will, and struggle to express what I had resolved to conceal.  But I have a veil—it is down: I may make shift yet to behave with decent composure.我猜想我确实往前走了，尽管不知道怎么走过去的。我几乎没有意识到自己的行动，而一味切记着要显得镇定，尤其要控制活动的面部神经——而它却公然违抗我的意志，挣扎着要把我决心掩饰的东西表露出来。但我戴着面纱——这时已经拿下。我可以尽力做出镇定自若的样子。“And this is Jane Eyre?  Are you coming from Millcote, and on foot?  Yes—just one of your tricks: not to send for a carriage, and come clattering over street and road like a common mortal, but to steal into the vicinage of your home along with twilight, just as if you were a dream or a shade.  What the deuce have you done with yourself this last month?”“这可是简•爱？你从米尔科特来，而且是走来的？是呀——又是你的一个鬼点子，不叫一辆马车，像一个普通人一样咔嗒咔嗒穿过街道和大路，偏要在黄昏薄暮，偷偷来到你家附近，仿佛你是一个梦，是一个影子。真见鬼，上个月你干了些什么？”“I have been with my aunt, sir, who is dead.”“我与我舅妈在一起，先生，她去世了。”“A true Janian reply!  Good angels be my guard!  She comes from the other world—from the abode of people who are dead; and tells me so when she meets me alone here in the gloaming!  If I dared, I’d touch you, to see if you are substance or shadow, you elf!—but I’d as soon offer to take hold of a blue ignis fatuus light in a marsh.  Truant! truant!” he added, when he had paused an instant.  “Absent from me a whole month, and forgetting me quite, I’ll be sworn!”“道地的简•爱式的回答！但愿善良的天使保护我吧！她是从另一个世界来的——从死人的住所来的，而且在黄昏碰见我一个人的时候这么告诉我。要是我有胆量，我会碰碰你，看你是实实在在的人，还是一个影子。你这精灵呀！——可是我甘愿去沼泽地里捕捉五色的鬼火。逃兵！逃兵！”他停了灯刻后又补充说：“离开我整整一个月，己经把我忘得一干二净，我敢担保！”I knew there would be pleasure in meeting my master again, even though broken by the fear that he was so soon to cease to be my master, and by the knowledge that I was nothing to him: but there was ever in Mr. Rochester (so at least I thought) such a wealth of the power of communicating happiness, that to taste but of the crumbs he scattered to stray and stranger birds like me, was to feast genially.  His last words were balm: they seemed to imply that it imported something to him whether I forgot him or not.  And he had spoken of Thornfield as my home—would that it were my home!我知道，与主人重逢是一件乐事，尽管备受干扰，因为我担心他快要不再是我的主人，而且我也明白我对他无足轻重了。不过在罗切斯特先生身上（至少我认为）永远有着一种使人感染上愉快的巨大力量，只要尝一尝他撒给象我这样离群孤鸟的面包屑，就无异于饱餐一顿盛宴。他最后的几句话抚慰了我，似乎是说，他还挺在乎我有没有把他给忘了呢，而且他把桑菲尔德说成是我的家——但愿那是我的家！He did not leave the stile, and I hardly liked to ask to go by.  I inquired soon if he had not been to London.他没有离开石阶，我很不情愿要求他让路。我立刻问他是不是去过伦敦了。“Yes; I suppose you found that out by second-sight.”“去了，我想你再看一眼就看出来了。”“Mrs. Fairfax told me in a letter.”“费尔法克斯太太在一封信里告诉我了。”“And did she inform you what I went to do?”“她告诉你我去干什么了吗？”“Oh, yes, sir!  Everybody knew your errand.”“呵，是的，先生！人人都知道你的伦敦之行。”“You must see the carriage, Jane, and tell me if you don’t think it will suit Mrs. Rochester exactly; and whether she won’t look like Queen Boadicea, leaning back against those purple cushions.  I wish, Jane, I were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally.  Tell me now, fairy as you are—can’t you give me a charm, or a philter, or something of that sort, to make me a handsome man?”“你得看一看马车，简，告诉我是不是你认为它完全适合罗切斯特太太。她靠在紫色的软垫上，看上去像不像波狄西亚女王。简，但愿我在外貌上同她更般配一点。你是个小精灵，那现在你就告诉我——能不能给我一种魔力，或者有魔力的药，或是某种类似的东西，使我变成一个英俊的男子？”“It would be past the power of magic, sir;” and, in thought, I added, “A loving eye is all the charm needed: to such you are handsome enough; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty.”“这不是魔力所能为的，先生，”我心里又补充道，“一个亲切的眼神是最需要的魔力，由此看来，你已经够漂亮了，或者不如说，你严厉的神情具有一种超越美的力量。”Mr. Rochester had sometimes read my unspoken thoughts with an acumen to me incomprehensible: in the present instance he took no notice of my abrupt vocal response; but he smiled at me with a certain smile he had of his own, and which he used but on rare occasions.  He seemed to think it too good for common purposes: it was the real sunshine of feeling—he shed it over me now.罗切斯特先生有时有一种我所无法理解的敏锐，能看透我没有表露的思想，眼下他没有理会我唐突的口头回答，却以他特有而少见的笑容，朝我笑笑。他似乎认为这种笑容太美妙，犯不着用于一般的目的。这确实是情感的阳光——此刻他将它撒遍我周身。“Pass, Janet,” said he, making room for me to cross the stile: “go up home, and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend’s threshold.”“走过去吧，珍妮特，”他说着空出地方来让我跨过台阶。“回家去，在朋友的门槛里，歇歇你那双奔波不定、疲倦了的小脚吧。”All I had now to do was to obey him in silence: no need for me to colloquise further.  I got over the stile without a word, and meant to leave him calmly.  An impulse held me fast—a force turned me round.  I said—or something in me said for me, and in spite of me—现在我该做的不过是默默地听从他罢了，没有必要再作口头交谈。我二话没说跨过石阶，打算平静地离开他。但是一种冲动攫住了我——一种力量使我回过头来。我说——或是内心的某种东西不由自主地替我说了：“Thank you, Mr. Rochester, for your great kindness.  I am strangely glad to get back again to you: and wherever you are is my home—my only home.”“罗切斯特先生，谢谢你的关怀。回到你身边，我感到出奇地高兴，你在哪儿，那儿就是我的家——我唯一的家。”I walked on so fast that even he could hardly have overtaken me had he tried.  Little Adèle was half wild with delight when she saw me.  Mrs. Fairfax received me with her usual plain friendliness.  Leah smiled, and even Sophie bid me “bon soir” with glee.  This was very pleasant; there is no happiness like that of being loved by your fellow-creatures, and feeling that your presence is an addition to their comfort.我走得那么快，甚至就是他要追赶也追赶不上。小阿黛勒一见我乐得差点儿疯了，费尔法克斯太太照例以一种朴实的友情接待了我。莉娅朝我笑笑，甚至连索菲娅也愉快地对我说了声“bonsoir”我感到非常愉快。你为自己的同类所爱，并感觉到自己的存在为他们增添了快慰时，你的幸福是无与伦比的。I that evening shut my eyes resolutely against the future: I stopped my cars against the voice that kept warning me of near separation and coming grief.  When tea was over and Mrs. Fairfax had taken her knitting, and I had assumed a low seat near her, and Adèle, kneeling on the carpet, had nestled close up to me, and a sense of mutual affection seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace, I uttered a silent prayer that we might not be parted far or soon; but when, as we thus sat, Mr. Rochester entered, unannounced, and looking at us, seemed to take pleasure in the spectacle of a group so amicable—



when he said he supposed the old lady was all right now that she had got her adopted daughter back again, and added that he saw Adèle was “prête à croquer sa petite maman Anglaise”—I half ventured to hope that he would, even after his marriage, keep us together somewhere under the shelter of his protection, and not quite exiled from the sunshine of his presence.那天晚上，我紧闭双眼，无视将来；我塞住耳朵，不去听“离别在即，忧伤将临”的频频警告。茶点过后，费尔法克斯太太开始了编织，我在她旁边找了个低矮的座位，阿黛勒跪在地毯上，紧偎着我。亲密无间的气氛，像一个宁静的金色圆圈围着我们。我默默地祈祷着，愿我们彼此不要分离得太远，也不要太早。但是，当我们如此坐着，罗切斯特先生不宣而至，打量着我们，似乎对一伙人如此融洽的景象感到愉快时——当他说，






既然老太太又弄回自己的养女，想必她已安心，并补充说他看到阿黛勒是“preteacroquersapetitemamanAnglaise”时——我近乎冒险地希望，即使在结婚以后，他也会把我们一起安置在某个地方，得到他的庇护，而不是远离他所辐射出的阳光。A fortnight of dubious calm succeeded my return to Thornfield Hall.  Nothing was said of the master’s marriage, and I saw no preparation going on for such an event.  Almost every day I asked Mrs. Fairfax if she had yet heard anything decided: her answer was always in the negative.  Once she said she had actually put the question to Mr. Rochester as to when he was going to bring his bride home; but he had answered her only by a joke and one of his queer looks, and she could not tell what to make of him.我回到桑菲尔德府后的两周，是在令人生疑的平静中度过的。主人的婚事没有再提起，我也没有看到为这件大事在作准备。我几乎天天问费尔法克斯太太，是否听说已经作出了决定。她总是给予否定的回答。有一回她说，她事实上已经问过罗切斯特先生，什么时候把新娘接回家来，但他只开了个玩笑，作了个鬼脸，便算是回答了。她猜不透他的心思。One thing specially surprised me, and that was, there were no journeyings backward and forward, no visits to Ingram Park: to be sure it was twenty miles off, on the borders of another county; but what was that distance to an ardent lover?  To so practised and indefatigable a horseman as Mr. Rochester, it would be but a morning’s ride.  I began to cherish hopes I had no right to conceive: that the match was broken off; that rumour had been mistaken; that one or both parties had changed their minds.  I used to look at my master’s face to see if it were sad or fierce; but I could not remember the time when it had been so uniformly clear of clouds or evil feelings.  If, in the moments I and my pupil spent with him, I lacked spirits and sank into inevitable dejection, he became even gay.  Never had he called me more frequently to his presence; never been kinder to me when there—and, alas! never had I loved him so well.有一件事更让人感到奇怪，他没有来回奔波，造访英格拉姆小姐。说实在，那地方位于本郡与另一个郡的交界之处，相隔仅二十英里，这点距离对一个热恋中的情人来说算得了什么？对于罗切斯特先生这样一位熟练而不知疲倦的骑手，那不过是一个上午的工夫，我开始萌生不该有的希望：婚事告吹，谣言不确，一方或双方都改变了主意。我常常观察我主人的脸，看看是不是有伤心或恼恨之情，但是在我的记忆中，他的面部从来没有像现在这样毫无愁容或怒色。在我与我的学生同他相处的时刻，要是我无精打采，并难免情绪消沉，他反倒乐不可支了。我从来没有像现在这么频繁地被他叫到跟前，到了那里他又待我这么亲切——而且，哎呀？我也从来没有如此爱他过。CHAPTER XXIII第二十三章A splendid Midsummer shone over England: skies so pure, suns so radiant as were then seen in long succession, seldom favour even singly, our wave-girt land.  It was as if a band of Italian days had come from the South, like a flock of glorious passenger birds, and lighted to rest them on the cliffs of Albion.  The hay was all got in; the fields round Thornfield were green and shorn; the roads white and baked; the trees were in their dark prime; hedge and wood, full-leaved and deeply tinted, contrasted well with the sunny hue of the cleared meadows between.仲夏明媚的阳光普照英格兰。当时那种一连几天日丽天清的气候，甚至一天半天都难得惠顾我们这个波浪环绕的岛国。仿佛持续的意大利天气从南方飘移过来，像一群灿烂的候鸟，落在英格兰的悬崖上歇脚。干草己经收好，桑菲尔德周围的田野己经收割干净，显出一片新绿。道路晒得白煞煞仿佛烤过似的，林木葱郁，十分茂盛。树篱与林子都叶密色浓，与它们之间收割过的草地的金黄色，形成了鲜明的对比。On Midsummer-eve, Adèle, weary with gathering wild strawberries in Hay Lane half the day, had gone to bed with the sun.  I watched her drop asleep, and when I left her, I sought the garden.施洗约翰节前夕，阿黛勒在海村小路上采了半天的野草莓，累坏了，太阳一落山就上床睡觉。我看着她入睡后，便离开她向花园走去。It was now the sweetest hour of the twenty-four:—“Day its fervid fires had wasted,” and dew fell cool on panting plain and scorched summit.  Where the sun had gone down in simple state—pure of the pomp of clouds—spread a solemn purple, burning with the light of red jewel and furnace flame at one point, on one hill-peak, and extending high and wide, soft and still softer, over half heaven.  The east had its own charm or fine deep blue, and its own modest gem, a casino and solitary star: soon it would boast the moon; but she was yet beneath the horizon.此刻是二十四小时中最甜蜜的时刻——“白昼己耗尽了它的烈火，”清凉的露水落在喘息的平原和烤灼过的山顶上。在夕阳朴实地西沉——并不伴有华丽的云彩——的地方，铺展开了一抹庄严的紫色，在山峰的一个尖顶上燃烧着红宝石和炉火般的光焰，向高处和远处伸延，显得越来越柔和，占据了半个天空。东方也自有它湛蓝悦目的魅力，有它不事炫耀的宝石——一颗升起的孤星。它很快会以月亮而自豪，不过这时月亮还在地平线之下。I walked a while on the pavement; but a subtle, well-known scent—that of a cigar—stole from some window; I saw the library casement open a handbreadth; I knew I might be watched thence; so I went apart into the orchard.  No nook in the grounds more sheltered and more Eden-like; it was full of trees, it bloomed with flowers: a very high wall shut it out from the court, on one side; on the other, a beech avenue screened it from the lawn.  At the bottom was a sunk fence; its sole separation from lonely fields: a winding walk, bordered with laurels and terminating in a giant horse-chestnut, circled at the base by a seat, led down to the fence.  Here one could wander unseen.  While such honey-dew fell, such silence reigned, such gloaming gathered, I felt as if I could haunt such shade for ever; but in threading the flower and fruit parterres at the upper part of the enclosure, enticed there by the light the now rising moon cast on this more open quarter, my step is stayed—not by sound, not by sight, but once more by a warning fragrance.我在铺筑过的路面上散了一会儿步。但是一阵细微而熟悉的清香——雪茄的气味——悄悄地从某个窗子里钻了出来。我看见图书室的窗开了一手掌宽的缝隙。我知道可能有人会从那儿看我，因此我走开了，进了果园。庭园里没有比这更隐蔽，更象伊甸园的角落了。这里树木繁茂，花儿盛开，一边有高墙同院子隔开；另一边一条长满山毛榉的路，象屏障一般，把它和草坪分开。底下是一道矮篱，是它与孤寂的田野唯一的分界。一条蜿蜒的小径通向篱笆。路边长着月桂树，路的尽头是一棵巨大无比的七叶树，树底下围着一排座位。你可以在这儿漫步而不被人看到。在这种玉露徐降、悄无声息、夜色渐浓的时刻，我觉得仿佛会永远在这样的阴影里踯躅。但这时我被初升的月亮投向园中高处开阔地的光芒所吸引，穿过花圃和果园，却停住了脚步，——不是因为听到或是看到了什么，而是因为再次闻到了一种我所警觉的香味。Sweet-briar and southernwood, jasmine, pink, and rose have long been yielding their evening sacrifice of incense: this new scent is neither of shrub nor flower; it is—I know it well—it is Mr. Rochester’s cigar.  I look round and I listen.  I see trees laden with ripening fruit.  I hear a nightingale warbling in a wood half a mile off; no moving form is visible, no coming step audible; but that perfume increases: I must flee.  I make for the wicket leading to the shrubbery, and I see Mr. Rochester entering.  I step aside into the ivy recess; he will not stay long: he will soon return whence he came, and if I sit still he will never see me.多花蔷蕾、老人蒿、茉莉花、石竹花和玫瑰花早就在奉献着它们的晚香，刚刚飘过来的气味既不是来自灌木，也不是来自花朵，但我很熟悉，它来自罗切斯特先生的雪茄。我举目四顾，侧耳静听。我看到树上沉甸甸垂着即将成熟的果子，听到一只夜莺在半英里外的林子里鸣啭。我看不见移动的身影，听不到走近的脚步声，但是那香气却越来越浓了。我得赶紧走掉。我往通向灌木林的边门走去，却看见罗切斯特先生正跨进门来。我往旁边一闪，躲进了长满长春藤的幽深处。他不会久待，很快会顺原路返回，只要我坐着不动，他就绝不会看见我。But no—eventide is as pleasant to him as to me, and this antique garden as attractive; and he strolls on, now lifting the gooseberry-tree branches to look at the fruit, large as plums, with which they are laden; now taking a ripe cherry from the wall; now stooping towards a knot of flowers, either to inhale their fragrance or to admire the dew-beads on their petals.  A great moth goes humming by me; it alights on a plant at Mr. Rochester’s foot: he sees it, and bends to examine it.可是不行——薄暮对他来说也象对我一样可爱，古老的园子也一样诱人。他继续往前踱步，一会儿拎起醋栗树枝，看看梅子般大压着枝头的果子；一会儿从墙上采下一颗熟了的樱挑；一会儿又向着一簇花弯下身子，不是闻一闻香味，就是欣赏花瓣上的露珠。一只大飞蛾嗡嗡地从我身旁飞过，落在罗切斯特先生脚边的花枝上，他见了便俯下身去打量。“Now, he has his back towards me,” thought I, “and he is occupied too; perhaps, if I walk softly, I can slip away unnoticed.”“现在，他背对着我，”我想，“而且全神贯注，也许要是我脚步儿轻些，我可以人不知鬼不觉地溜走。”I trode on an edging of turf that the crackle of the pebbly gravel might not betray me: he was standing among the beds at a yard or two distant from where I had to pass; the moth apparently engaged him.  “I shall get by very well,” I meditated.  As I crossed his shadow, thrown long over the garden by the moon, not yet risen high, he said quietly, without turning—我踩在路边的草皮上，免得沙石路的咔嚓声把自己给暴露。他站在离我必经之地一两码的花坛中间，显然飞蛾吸引了他的注意力。“我会顺利通过，”我暗自思忖。月亮还没有升得很高，在园子里投下了罗切斯特先生长长的身影，我正要跨过这影子，他却头也不回就低声说：“Jane, come and look at this fellow.”“简，过来看看这家伙。”I had made no noise: he had not eyes behind—could his shadow feel?  I started at first, and then I approached him.我不曾发出声响，他背后也不长眼睛——难道他的影子会有感觉不成？我先是吓了一跳，随后便朝他走去。“Look at his wings,” said he, “he reminds me rather of a West Indian insect; one does not often see so large and gay a night-rover in England; there! he is flown.”“瞧它的翅膀，”他说，“它使我想起一只西印度的昆虫，在英国不常见到这么又大又艳丽的夜游虫。瞧！它飞走了。”The moth roamed away.  I was sheepishly retreating also; but Mr. Rochester followed me, and when we reached the wicket, he said—飞蛾飘忽着飞走了。我也局促不安地退去。可是罗切斯特先生跟着我，到了边门，他说：“Turn back: on so lovely a night it is a shame to sit in the house; and surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at meeting with moonrise.”“回来，这么可爱的夜晚，坐在屋子里多可惜。在日落与月出相逢的时刻，肯定是没有谁愿意去睡觉的。”It is one of my faults, that though my tongue is sometimes prompt enough at an answer, there are times when it sadly fails me in framing an excuse; and always the lapse occurs at some crisis, when a facile word or plausible pretext is specially wanted to get me out of painful embarrassment.  I did not like to walk at this hour alone with Mr. Rochester in the shadowy orchard; but I could not find a reason to allege for leaving him.  I followed with lagging step, and thoughts busily bent on discovering a means of extrication; but he himself looked so composed and so grave also, I became ashamed of feeling any confusion: the evil—if evil existent or prospective there was—seemed to lie with me only; his mind was unconscious and quiet.我有一个缺陷，那就是尽管我口齿伶俐，对答如流，但需要寻找藉口的时候却往往一筹莫展。因此某些关键时刻，需要随口一句话，或者站得住脚的遁词来摆脱痛苦的窘境时，我便常常会出差错。我不愿在这个时候单独同罗切斯特先生漫步在阴影笼罩的果园里。但是我又找不出一个脱身的理由。我慢吞吞地跟在后头，一面在拼命动脑筋设法摆脱。可是他显得那么镇定，那么严肃，使我反而为自己的慌乱而感到羞愧了。如果说心中有鬼——不管是现在还是将来——那只能说我有。他心里十分平静，而且全然不觉。“Jane,” he recommenced, as we entered the laurel walk, and slowly strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut, “Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, is it not?”“简，”他重又开腔了。我们正走进长满月桂的小径，缓步踱向矮篱笆和七叶树，“夏天，桑菲尔德是个可爱的地方，是吗？”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“You must have become in some degree attached to the house,—you, who have an eye for natural beauties, and a good deal of the organ of Adhesiveness?”“你一定有些依恋桑菲尔德府了——你有欣赏自然美的眼力，而且很有依恋之情。”“I am attached to it, indeed.”“说实在，我依恋这个地方。”“And though I don’t comprehend how it is, I perceive you have acquired a degree of regard for that foolish little child Adèle, too; and even for simple dame Fairfax?”“而且，尽管我不理解这究竟是怎么回事，但我觉察出来，你已开始关切阿黛勒这个小傻瓜，甚至还有朴实的老妇费尔法克斯。”“Yes, sir; in different ways, I have an affection for both.”“是的，先生，尽管性质不同，我对她们两人都有感情。”“And would be sorry to part with them?”“而同她们分手会感到难过。”“Yes.”“是的。”“Pity!” he said, and sighed and paused.  “It is always the way of events in this life,” he continued presently: “no sooner have you got settled in a pleasant resting-place, than a voice calls out to you to rise and move on, for the hour of repose is expired.”“可惜呀！”他说，叹了口气又打住了。“世上的事情总是这样，”他马上又继续说，“你刚在一个愉快的栖身之处安顿下来，一个声音便会叫你起来往前赶路，因为已过了休息的时辰。”“Must I move on, sir?” I asked.  “Must I leave Thornfield?”“我得往前赶路吗，先生？”我问。“我得离开桑菲尔德吗？”“I believe you must, Jane.  I am sorry, Janet, but I believe indeed you must.”“我想你得走了，简，很抱歉，珍妮特，但我的确认为你该走了。”This was a blow: but I did not let it prostrate me.这是一个打击，但我不让它击倒我。“Well, sir, I shall be ready when the order to march comes.”“行呀，先生，要我走的命令一下，我便走。”“It is come now—I must give it to-night.”“现在命令来了——我今晚就得下。”“Then you are going to be married, sir?”“那你要结婚了，先生？”“Ex-act-ly—pre-cise-ly: with your usual acuteness, you have hit the nail straight on the head.”“确——实——如——此，对——极——了。凭你一贯的机敏，你已经一语中的。”“Soon, sir?”“快了吗，先生？”“Very soon, my—that is, Miss Eyre: and you’ll remember, Jane, the first time I, or Rumour, plainly intimated to you that it was my intention to put my old bachelor’s neck into the sacred noose, to enter into the holy estate of matrimony—to take Miss Ingram to my bosom, in short (she’s an extensive armful: but that’s not to the point—one can’t have too much of such a very excellent thing as my beautiful Blanche): well, as I was saying—listen to me, Jane!  You’re not turning your head to look after more moths, are you?  That was only a lady-clock, child, ‘flying away home.’  I wish to remind you that it was you who first said to me, with that discretion I respect in you—with that foresight, prudence, and humility which befit your responsible and dependent position—that in case I married Miss Ingram, both you and little Adèle had better trot forthwith.  I pass over the sort of slur conveyed in this suggestion on the character of my beloved; indeed, when you are far away, Janet, I’ll try to forget it: I shall notice only its wisdom; which is such that I have made it my law of action.  Adèle must go to school; and you, Miss Eyre, must get a new situation.”“很快，我的一—，那就是，爱小姐，你还记得吧，简，我第一次，或者说谣言明白向你表示，我有意把自己老单身汉的脖子套上神圣的绳索，进入圣洁的婚姻状态——把英格拉姆小姐搂入我的怀抱，总之（她足足有一大抱，但那无关紧要——像我漂亮的布兰奇那样的市民，是谁都不会嫌大的）。是呀，就像我刚才说的——听我说，简！你没有回头去看还有没有飞蛾吧？那不过是个瓢虫，孩子，‘正飞回家去’我想提醒你一下，正是你以我所敬佩的审慎，那种适合你责任重大、却并不独立的职业的远见、精明和谦卑，首先向我提出，万一我娶了英格拉姆小姐，你和小阿黛勒两个还是立刻就走好。我并不计较这一建议所隐含的对我意中人人格上的污辱。说实在，一旦你们走得远远的，珍妮特，我会努力把它忘掉。我所注意到的只是其中的智慧，它那么高明，我已把它奉为行动的准则。阿黛勒必须上学，爱小姐，你得找一个新的工作。”“Yes, sir, I will advertise immediately: and meantime, I suppose—” I was going to say, “I suppose I may stay here, till I find another shelter to betake myself to:” but I stopped, feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence, for my voice was not quite under command.“是的，先生，我会马上去登广告，而同时我想——”我想说，“我想我可以呆在这里，直到我找到另外一个安身之处”但我打住了，觉得不能冒险说一个长句，因为我的嗓门已经难以自制了。“In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom,” continued Mr. Rochester; “and in the interim, I shall myself look out for employment and an asylum for you.”“我希望大约一个月以后成为新郎，”罗切斯特先生继续说，“在这段期间，我会亲自为你留意找一个工作和落脚的地方。”“Thank you, sir; I am sorry to give—”“谢谢你，先生，对不起给你——”“Oh, no need to apologise!  I consider that when a dependent does her duty as well as you have done yours, she has a sort of claim upon her employer for any little assistance he can conveniently render her; indeed I have already, through my future mother-in-law, heard of a place that I think will suit: it is to undertake the education of the five daughters of Mrs. Dionysius O’Gall of Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught, Ireland.  You’ll like Ireland, I think: they’re such warm-hearted people there, they say.”“呵——不必道歉！我认为一个下人把工作做得跟你自己一样出色时，她就有权要求雇主给予一点容易办到的小小帮助。其实我从未来的岳母那儿听到一个适合你去的地方。就是爱尔兰康诺特的苦果村，教迪奥尼修斯．奥加尔太太的五个女儿，我想你会喜欢爱尔兰的。他们说，那里的人都很热心。”“It is a long way off, sir.”“离这儿很远呢，先生。”“No matter—a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage or the distance.”“没有关系——像你这样一个通情达理的姑娘是不会反对航程或距离的。”“Not the voyage, but the distance: and then the sea is a barrier—”“不是航程，而是距离。还有大海是一大障碍——”“From what, Jane?”“离开什么地方，简？”“From England and from Thornfield: and—”“离开英格兰和桑菲尔德，还有——”“Well?”“怎么？”“From you, sir.”“离开你，先生。”I said this almost involuntarily, and, with as little sanction of free will, my tears gushed out.  I did not cry so as to be heard, however; I avoided sobbing.  The thought of Mrs. O’Gall and Bitternutt Lodge struck cold to my heart; and colder the thought of all the brine and foam, destined, as it seemed, to rush between me and the master at whose side I now walked, and coldest the remembrance of the wider ocean—wealth, caste, custom intervened between me and what I naturally and inevitably loved.我几乎不知不觉中说了这话，眼泪不由自主夺眶而出。但我没有哭出声来，我也避免抽泣。一想起奥加尔太太和苦果村，我的心就凉了半截；一想起在我与此刻同我并肩而行的主人之间，注定要翻腾着大海和波涛，我的心就更凉了；而一记起在我同我自然和必然所爱的东西之间，横亘着财富、阶层和习俗的辽阔海洋，我的心凉透了。“It is a long way,” I again said.“离这儿很远，”我又说了一句。“It is, to be sure; and when you get to Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught, Ireland, I shall never see you again, Jane: that’s morally certain.  I never go over to Ireland, not having myself much of a fancy for the country.  We have been good friends, Jane; have we not?”“确实加此。等你到了爱尔兰康诺特的苦果村，我就永远见不到你了，肯定就是这么回事。我从来不去爱尔兰，因为自己并不太喜欢这个国家。我们一直是好朋友，简，你说是不是？”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“And when friends are on the eve of separation, they like to spend the little time that remains to them close to each other.  Come! we’ll talk over the voyage and the parting quietly half-an-hour or so, while the stars enter into their shining life up in heaven yonder: here is the chestnut tree: here is the bench at its old roots.  Come, we will sit there in peace to-night, though we should never more be destined to sit there together.”  He seated me and himself.“朋友们在离别的前夕，往往喜欢亲密无间地度过余下的不多时光。来——星星们在那边天上闪烁着光芒时，我们用上半个小时左右，平静地谈谈航行和离别。这儿是一棵七叶树，这边是围着老树根的凳子。来，今晚我们就安安心心地坐在这儿，虽然我们今后注定再也不会坐在一起了。”他让我坐下，然后自己也坐了下来。“It is a long way to Ireland, Janet, and I am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels: but if I can’t do better, how is it to be helped?  Are you anything akin to me, do you think, Jane?”“这儿到爱尔兰很远，珍妮特，很抱歉，把我的小朋友送上这么今人厌倦的旅程。但要是没有更好的主意了，那该怎么办呢？简，你认为你我之间有相近之处吗？”I could risk no sort of answer by this time: my heart was still.这时我没敢回答，因为我内心很激动。“Because,” he said, “I sometimes have a queer feeling with regard to you—especially when you are near me, as now: it is as if I had a string somewhere under my left ribs, tightly and inextricably knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little frame.  And if that boisterous Channel, and two hundred miles or so of land come broad between us, I am afraid that cord of communion will be snapt; and then I’ve a nervous notion I should take to bleeding inwardly.  As for you,—you’d forget me.”“因为，”他说，“有时我对你有一种奇怪的感觉——尤其是当你象现在这样靠近我的时候。仿佛我左面的肋骨有一根弦，跟你小小的身躯同一个部位相似的弦紧紧地维系着，难分难解。如果咆哮的海峡和二百英里左右的陆地，把我们远远分开，恐怕这根情感交流的弦会折断，于是我不安地想到，我的内心会流血。至于你——你会忘掉我。”“That I never should, sir: you know—”  Impossible to proceed.“那我永远不会，先生，你知道——”我不可能再说下去了。“Jane, do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood?  Listen!”“简，听见夜莺在林中歌唱吗？——听呀！”In listening, I sobbed convulsively; for I could repress what I endured no longer; I was obliged to yield, and I was shaken from head to foot with acute distress.  When I did speak, it was only to express an impetuous wish that I had never been born, or never come to Thornfield.我听着听着便抽抽噎噎地哭泣起来，再也抑制不住强忍住的感情，不得不任其流露了。我痛苦万分地浑身颤栗着。到了终于开口时，我便只能表达一个冲动的愿望：但愿自己从来没有生下来，从未到过桑菲尔德。“Because you are sorry to leave it?”“因为要离开而难过吗？”The vehemence of emotion, stirred by grief and love within me, was claiming mastery, and struggling for full sway, and asserting a right to predominate, to overcome, to live, rise, and reign at last: yes,—and to speak.悲与爱在我内心所煽起的强烈情绪，正占上风，并竭力要支配一切，压倒一切，战胜一切，要求生存、扩展和最终主宰一切，不错——还要求吐露出来。“I grieve to leave Thornfield: I love Thornfield:—I love it, because I have lived in it a full and delightful life,—momentarily at least.  I have not been trampled on.  I have not been petrified.  I have not been buried with inferior minds, and excluded from every glimpse of communion with what is bright and energetic and high.  I have talked, face to face, with what I reverence, with what I delight in,—with an original, a vigorous, an expanded mind.  I have known you, Mr. Rochester; and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel I absolutely must be torn from you for ever.  I see the necessity of departure; and it is like looking on the necessity of death.”“离开桑菲尔德我很伤心，我爱桑菲尔德——我爱它是因为我在这里过着充实而愉快的生活——至少有一段时间。我没有遭人践踏，也没有弄得古板僵化，没有混迹于志向低下的人之中，也没有被排斥在同光明、健康、高尚的心灵交往的一切机会之外。我已面对面同我所敬重的人、同我所喜欢的人，——同一个独特、活跃、博大的心灵交谈过。我已经熟悉你，罗切斯特先生，硬要让我永远同你分开，使我感到恐惧和痛苦。我看到非分别不可，就像看到非死不可一样。”“Where do you see the necessity?” he asked suddenly.“在哪儿看到的呢？”他猛地问道。“Where?  You, sir, have placed it before me.”“哪儿？你，先生，已经把这种必要性摆在我面前了。”“In what shape?”“什么样的必要性？”“In the shape of Miss Ingram; a noble and beautiful woman,—your bride.”“就是英格拉姆小姐那模样，一个高尚而漂亮的女人——你的新娘。”“My bride!  What bride?  I have no bride!”“我的新娘！什么新娘呀？我没有新娘！”“But you will have.”“但你会有的。”“Yes;—I will!—I will!”  He set his teeth.“是的，我会！我会！”他咬紧牙齿。“Then I must go:—you have said it yourself.”“那我得走——你自己已经说了。”“No: you must stay!  I swear it—and the oath shall be kept.”“不，你非留下不可！我发誓——我信守誓言。”“I tell you I must go!” I retorted, roused to something like passion.  “Do you think I can stay to become nothing to you?  Do you think I am an automaton?—a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from my cup?  Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless?  You think wrong!—I have as much soul as you,—and full as much heart!  And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you.  I am not talking to you now through the medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh;—it is my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God’s feet, equal,—as we are!”“我告诉你我非走不可！”我回驳着，感情很有些冲动。“你难道认为，我会留下来甘愿做一个对你来说无足轻重的人？你以为我是一架机器？——一架没有感情的机器？能够容忍别人把一口面包从我嘴里抢走，把一滴生命之水从我杯子里泼掉？难道就因为我一贫如洗、默默无闻、长相平庸、个子瘦小，就没有灵魂，没有心肠了？——你不是想错了吗？——我的心灵跟你一样丰富，我的心胸跟你一样充实！要是上帝赐予我一点姿色和充足的财富，我会使你同我现在一样难分难舍，我不是根据习俗、常规，甚至也不是血肉之躯同你说话，而是我的灵魂同你的灵魂在对话，就仿佛我们两人穿过坟墓，站在上帝脚下，彼此平等——本来就如此！”“As we are!” repeated Mr. Rochester—“so,” he added, enclosing me in his arms.  Gathering me to his breast, pressing his lips on my lips: “so, Jane!”“本来就如此！”罗切斯特先生重复道——“所以，”他补充道，一面用胳膊把我抱住，搂到怀里，把嘴唇贴到我的嘴唇上。“所以是这样，简？”“Yes, so, sir,” I rejoined: “and yet not so; for you are a married man—or as good as a married man, and wed to one inferior to you—to one with whom you have no sympathy—whom I do not believe you truly love; for I have seen and heard you sneer at her.  I would scorn such a union: therefore I am better than you—let me go!”“是呀，所以是这样，先生，”我回答，“可是并没有这样。因为你已结了婚——或者说无异于结了婚，跟一个远不如你的人结婚——一个跟你并不意气相投的人——我才不相信你真的会爱她，因为我看到过，也听到过你讥笑她。对这样的结合我会表示不屑，所以我比你强——让我走！”“Where, Jane?  To Ireland?”“上哪儿，简？去爱尔兰？”“Yes—to Ireland.  I have spoken my mind, and can go anywhere now.”“是的——去爱尔兰。我已经把心里话都说了，现在上哪儿都行了。”“Jane, be still; don’t struggle so, like a wild frantic bird that is rending its own plumage in its desperation.”“简，平静些，别那挣扎着，像一只发疯的鸟儿，拚命撕掉自己的羽毛。”“I am no bird; and no net ensnares me; I am a free human being with an independent will, which I now exert to leave you.”“我不是鸟，也没有陷入罗网。我是一个具有独立意志的自由人，现在我要行施自己的意志，离开你。”Another effort set me at liberty, and I stood erect before him.我再一挣扎便脱了身，在他跟前昂首而立。“And your will shall decide your destiny,” he said: “I offer you my hand, my heart, and a share of all my possessions.”“你的意志可以决定你的命运，”他说。“我把我的手，我的心和我的一份财产都献给你。”“You play a farce, which I merely laugh at.”“你在上演一出闹剧，我不过一笑置之。”“I ask you to pass through life at my side—to be my second self, and best earthly companion.”“我请求你在我身边度过余生——成为我的另一半，世上最好的伴侣。”“For that fate you have already made your choice, and must abide by it.”“那种命运，你已经作出了选择，那就应当坚持到底。”“Jane, be still a few moments: you are over-excited: I will be still too.”“简，请你平静一会儿，你太激动了，我也会平静下来的。”A waft of wind came sweeping down the laurel-walk, and trembled through the boughs of the chestnut: it wandered away—away—to an indefinite distance—it died.  The nightingale’s song was then the only voice of the hour: in listening to it, I again wept.  Mr. Rochester sat quiet, looking at me gently and seriously.  Some time passed before he spoke; he at last said—一阵风吹过月桂小径，穿过摇曳着的七叶树枝，飘走了——走了——到了天涯海角——消失了。夜莺的歌喉成了这时唯一的声响，听着它我再次哭了起来。罗切斯特先生静静地坐着，和蔼而严肃地瞧着我。过了好一会他才开口。最后他说：“Come to my side, Jane, and let us explain and understand one another.”“到我身边来，简，让我们解释一下，相互谅解吧。”“I will never again come to your side: I am torn away now, and cannot return.”“我再也不会回到你身边了，我已经被拉走，不可能回头了。”“But, Jane, I summon you as my wife: it is you only I intend to marry.”“不过，简，我唤你过来做我的妻子，我要娶的是你。”I was silent: I thought he mocked me.我没有吭声，心里想他在讥笑我。“Come, Jane—come hither.”“过来，简——到这边来。”“Your bride stands between us.”“你的新娘阻挡着我们。”He rose, and with a stride reached me.他站了起来，一个箭步到了我跟前。“My bride is here,” he said, again drawing me to him, “because my equal is here, and my likeness.  Jane, will you marry me?”“我的新娘在这儿，”他说着，再次把我往身边拉，“因为与我相配的人在这儿，与我相像的人，简，你愿意嫁给我吗？”Still I did not answer, and still I writhed myself from his grasp: for I was still incredulous.我仍然没有回答，仍然要挣脱他，因为我仍然不相信。“Do you doubt me, Jane?”“你怀疑我吗，简？”“Entirely.”“绝对怀疑。”“You have no faith in me?”“你不相信我？”“Not a whit.”“一点也不信。”“Am I a liar in your eyes?” he asked passionately.  “Little sceptic, you shall be convinced.  What love have I for Miss Ingram?  None: and that you know.  What love has she for me?  None: as I have taken pains to prove: I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed, and after that I presented myself to see the result; it was coldness both from her and her mother.  I would not—I could not—marry Miss Ingram.  You—you strange, you almost unearthly thing!—I love as my own flesh.  You—poor and obscure, and small and plain as you are—I entreat to accept me as a husband.”“你看我是个爱说谎的人吗？”他激动地问。“疑神疑鬼的小东西，我一定要使你信服。我同英格拉姆小姐有什么爱可言？没有，那你是知道的。她对我有什么爱？没有，我已经想方设法来证实。我放出了谣言，传到她耳朵里，说是我的财产还不到想象中的三分之一，然后我现身说法，亲自去看结果，她和她母亲对我都非常冷淡。我不愿意——也不可能——娶英格拉姆小姐。你——你这古怪的——你这近乎是精灵的家伙——我像爱我自己的肉体一样爱你。你——虽然一贫如洗、默默无闻、个子瘦小、相貌平庸—一我请求你把我当作你的丈夫。”“What, me!” I ejaculated, beginning in his earnestness—and especially in his incivility—to credit his sincerity: “me who have not a friend in the world but you—if you are my friend: not a shilling but what you have given me?”“什么，我！”我猛地叫出声来。出于他的认真，尤其是粗鲁的言行，我开始相信他的诚意了。“我，我这个人除了你，世上没有一个朋友，——如果你是我朋友的话。除了你给我的钱，一个子儿也没有。”“You, Jane, I must have you for my own—entirely my own.  Will you be mine?  Say yes, quickly.”“就是你，简。我得让你属于我——完全属于我。你肯吗？快说‘好’呀。”“Mr. Rochester, let me look at your face: turn to the moonlight.”“罗切斯特先生，让我瞧瞧你的脸。转到朝月光的一边去。”“Why?”“为什么？”“Because I want to read your countenance—turn!”“因为我要细看你的面容，转呀！”“There! you will find it scarcely more legible than a crumpled, scratched page.  Read on: only make haste, for I suffer.”“那儿，你能看到的无非是撕皱了的一页，往下看吧，只不过快些，因为我很不好受。”His face was very much agitated and very much flushed, and there were strong workings in the features, and strange gleams in the eyes.他的脸焦急不安，涨得通红，五官在激烈抽动，眼睛射出奇怪的光芒。“Oh, Jane, you torture me!” he exclaimed.  “With that searching and yet faithful and generous look, you torture me!”“呵，简，你在折磨我！”他大嚷道。“你用那种犀利而慷慨可信的目光瞧着我，你在折磨我！”“How can I do that?  If you are true, and your offer real, my only feelings to you must be gratitude and devotion—they cannot torture.”“我怎么会呢？如果你是真的，你的提议也是真的，那么我对你的感情只会是感激和忠心——那就不可能是折磨。”“Gratitude!” he ejaculated; and added wildly—“Jane accept me quickly.  Say, Edward—give me my name—Edward—I will marry you.”“感激！”他脱口喊道，并且狂乱地补充道——“简，快接受我吧。说，爱德华——叫我的名字——爱德华，我愿意嫁你。”“Are you in earnest?  Do you truly love me?  Do you sincerely wish me to be your wife?”“你可当真？——你真的爱我？——你真心希望我成为你的妻子？”“I do; and if an oath is necessary to satisfy you, I swear it.”“我真的是这样。要是有必要发誓才能使你满意，那我就以此发誓。”“Then, sir, I will marry you.”“那么，先生，我愿意嫁给你。”“Edward—my little wife!”“叫爱德华——我的小夫人。”“Dear Edward!”“亲爱的爱德华！”“Come to me—come to me entirely now,” said he; and added, in his deepest tone, speaking in my ear as his cheek was laid on mine, “Make my happiness—I will make yours.”“到我身边来——完完全全过来。”他说，把他的脸颊贴着我的脸颊，用深沉的语调对着我耳朵补充说，“使我幸福吧——我也会使你幸福。”“God pardon me!” he subjoined ere long; “and man meddle not with me: I have her, and will hold her.”“上帝呀，宽恕我吧！”他不久又添了一句，“还有人呀，别干涉我，我得到了她，我要紧紧抓住她。”“There is no one to meddle, sir.  I have no kindred to interfere.”“没有人会干涉，先生。我没有亲人来干预。”“No—that is the best of it,” he said.  And if I had loved him less I should have thought his accent and look of exultation savage; but, sitting by him, roused from the nightmare of parting—called to the paradise of union—I thought only of the bliss given me to drink in so abundant a flow.  Again and again he said, “Are you happy, Jane?”  And again and again I answered, “Yes.”  After which he murmured, “It will atone—it will atone.  Have I not found her friendless, and cold, and comfortless?  Will I not guard, and cherish, and solace her?  Is there not love in my heart, and constancy in my resolves?  It will expiate at God’s tribunal.  I know my Maker sanctions what I do.  For the world’s judgment—I wash my hands thereof.  For man’s opinion—I defy it.”“不——那再好不过了。”他说。要是我不是那么爱他，我会认为他的腔调，他狂喜的表情有些粗野。但是我从离别的恶梦中醒来，被赐予天作之合，坐在他身旁，光想着啜饮源源而来的幸福的清泉。他一再问，“你幸福吗，简？”而我一再回答“是的”。随后他咕哝着，“会赎罪的，——会赎罪的。我不是发现她没有朋友，得不到抚慰，受到冷落吗？我不是会保护她，珍爱她，安慰她吗？我心里不是有爱，我的决心不是始终不变吗？那一切会在上帝的法庭上得到赎罪。我知道造物主会准许我的所作所为。至于世间的评判——我不去理睬。别人的意见——我断然拒绝。”But what had befallen the night?  The moon was not yet set, and we were all in shadow: I could scarcely see my master’s face, near as I was.  And what ailed the chestnut tree? it writhed and groaned; while wind roared in the laurel walk, and came sweeping over us.可是，夜晚发生什么变化了？月亮还没有下沉，我们已全湮没在阴影之中了。虽然主人离我近在咫尺，但我几乎看不清他的脸。七叶树受了什么病痛的折磨？它扭动着，呻吟着，狂风在月桂树小径咆哮，直向我们扑来。“We must go in,” said Mr. Rochester: “the weather changes.  I could have sat with thee till morning, Jane.”“我们得进去了，”罗切斯特先生说。“天气变了。不然我可以同你坐到天明，简。”“And so,” thought I, “could I with you.”  I should have said so, perhaps, but a livid, vivid spark leapt out of a cloud at which I was looking, and there was a crack, a crash, and a close rattling peal; and I thought only of hiding my dazzled eyes against Mr. Rochester’s shoulder.“我也一样，”我想。也许我应该这么说出来，可是从我正仰望着的云层里，窜出了一道铅灰色的闪电，随后是喀啦啦一声霹雳和近处的一阵隆隆声。我只想把自己发花的眼睛贴在罗切斯特先生的肩膀上。The rain rushed down.  He hurried me up the walk, through the grounds, and into the house; but we were quite wet before we could pass the threshold.  He was taking off my shawl in the hall, and shaking the water out of my loosened hair, when Mrs. Fairfax emerged from her room.  I did not observe her at first, nor did Mr. Rochester.  The lamp was lit.  The clock was on the stroke of twelve.大雨倾盆而下，他催我踏上小径，穿过庭园，进屋子去。但是我们还没跨进门槛就已经湿淋淋了。在厅里他取下了我的披肩，把水滴从我散了的头发中摇下来，正在这时，费尔法克斯太太从她房间里出来了。起初我没有觉察，罗切斯特先生也没有。灯亮着，时钟正敲十二点。“Hasten to take off your wet things,” said he; “and before you go, good-night—good-night, my darling!”“快把湿衣服脱掉，”他说，“临走之前，说一声晚安——晚安，我的宝贝！”He kissed me repeatedly.  When I looked up, on leaving his arms, there stood the widow, pale, grave, and amazed.  I only smiled at her, and ran upstairs.  “Explanation will do for another time,” thought I.  Still, when I reached my chamber, I felt a pang at the idea she should even temporarily misconstrue what she had seen.  




But joy soon effaced every other feeling; and loud as the wind blew, near and deep as the thunder crashed, fierce and frequent as the lightning gleamed, cataract-like as the rain fell during a storm of two hours’ duration, I experienced no fear and little awe.  Mr. Rochester came thrice to my door in the course of it, to ask if I was safe and tranquil: and that was comfort, that was strength for anything.他吻了我，吻了又吻。我离开他怀抱抬起头来一看，只见那位寡妇站在那儿，脸色苍白，神情严肃而惊讶。我只朝她微微一笑，便跑上楼去了。“下次再解释也行，”我想。但是到了房间里，想起她一时会对看到的情况产生误解，心里便感到一阵痛楚。







然而喜悦抹去了一切其他感情。尽管在两小时的暴风雨中，狂风大作，雷声隆隆，电光闪闪，暴雨如注，我并不害怕，并不畏惧。这中间罗切斯特先生三次上门，问我是否平安无事。这无论如何给了我安慰和力量。Before I left my bed in the morning, little Adèle came running in to tell me that the great horse-chestnut at the bottom of the orchard had been struck by lightning in the night, and half of it split away.早晨我还没起床，小阿黛勒就跑来告诉我，果园尽头的大七叶树夜里遭了雷击，被劈去了一半。CHAPTER XXIV第二十四章As I rose and dressed, I thought over what had happened, and wondered if it were a dream.  I could not be certain of the reality till I had seen Mr. Rochester again, and heard him renew his words of love and promise.我穿衣起身，把发生的事想了一遍，怀疑是不是一场梦。在我再次看见罗切斯特先生，听到他重复那番情话和诺言之前，是无法确定那是不是真实的。While arranging my hair, I looked at my face in the glass, and felt it was no longer plain: there was hope in its aspect and life in its colour; and my eyes seemed as if they had beheld the fount of fruition, and borrowed beams from the lustrous ripple.  I had often been unwilling to look at my master, because I feared he could not be pleased at my look; but I was sure I might lift my face to his now, and not cool his affection by its expression.  I took a plain but clean and light summer dress from my drawer and put it on: it seemed no attire had ever so well become me, because none had I ever worn in so blissful a mood.我在梳头时朝镜子里打量了一下自己的脸，感到它不再平庸了。面容透出了希望，脸色有了活力，眼睛仿佛看到了果实的源泉，从光彩夺目的涟漪中借来了光芒。我向来不愿去看我主人，因为我怕我的目光会使他不愉快。但是现在我肯定可以扬起脸来看他的脸了，我的表情不会使他的爱心冷却。我从抽屉里拿了件朴实干净的薄夏装，穿在身上。似乎从来没有一件衣服像这件那么合身，因为没有一件是在这种狂喜的情绪中穿上的。I was not surprised, when I ran down into the hall, to see that a brilliant June morning had succeeded to the tempest of the night; and to feel, through the open glass door, the breathing of a fresh and fragrant breeze.  Nature must be gladsome when I was so happy.  A beggar-woman and her little boy—pale, ragged objects both—were coming up the walk, and I ran down and gave them all the money I happened to have in my purse—some three or four shillings: good or bad, they must partake of my jubilee.  The rooks cawed, and blither birds sang; but nothing was so merry or so musical as my own rejoicing heart.我跑下楼去，进了大厅，只见阳光灿烂的六月早晨，已经代替了暴风雨之夜。透过开着的玻璃门，我感受到了清新芬芳的微风，但我并不觉得惊奇。当我欣喜万分的时候，大自然也一定非常高兴。一个要饭的女人和她的小男孩——两个脸色苍白，衣衫褴褛的活物——顺着小径走上来，我跑下去，倾囊所有给了她们——大约三四个先令，好歹他们都得分享我的欢乐。白嘴鸦呱呱叫着，还有更活泼一点的鸟儿在啁鸣，但是我心儿的欢唱比谁都美妙动听。Mrs. Fairfax surprised me by looking out of the window with a sad countenance, and saying gravely—“Miss Eyre, will you come to breakfast?”  During the meal she was quiet and cool: but I could not undeceive her then.  I must wait for my master to give explanations; and so must she.  I ate what I could, and then I hastened upstairs.  I met Adèle leaving the schoolroom.使我吃惊的是，费尔法克斯太太神色忧伤地望着窗外，十分严肃地说：“爱小姐，请来用早餐好吗？”吃饭时她冷冷地一声不吭。但那时我无法替她解开疑团。我得等我主人来解释，所以她也只好等待了。我勉强吃了一点，便匆勿上了楼，碰见阿黛勒正离开读书室。“Where are you going?  It is time for lessons.”“你上哪儿去呀？上课的时间到了。”“Mr. Rochester has sent me away to the nursery.”“罗切斯特先生已经打发我到育儿室去了。”“Where is he?”“他在哪儿？”“In there,” pointing to the apartment she had left; and I went in, and there he stood.“在那儿呢，”她指了指她刚离开的房间。我走进那里，原来他就站在里面。“Come and bid me good-morning,” said he.  I gladly advanced; and it was not merely a cold word now, or even a shake of the hand that I received, but an embrace and a kiss.  It seemed natural: it seemed genial to be so well loved, so caressed by him.“来，对我说声早安，”他说。我愉快地走上前。这回我所遇到的，不光是一句冷冰冰的话，或者是握一握手而已，而是拥抱和接吻。他那么爱我，抚慰我，显得既亲切又自然。“Jane, you look blooming, and smiling, and pretty,” said he: “truly pretty this morning.  Is this my pale, little elf?  Is this my mustard-seed?  This little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled cheek and rosy lips; the satin-smooth hazel hair, and the radiant hazel eyes?”  (I had green eyes, reader; but you must excuse the mistake: for him they were new-dyed, I suppose.)“简，你容光焕发，笑容满面，漂亮极了。”他说。“今天早晨真的很漂亮。这就是我苍白的小精灵吗？这不是我的小芥子吗？”不就是这个脸带笑靥，嘴唇鲜红，头发栗色光滑如缎，眼睛淡褐光芒四射，满面喜色的小姑娘吗？（读者，我的眼睛是青色的，但是你得原谅他的错误，对他来说我的眼睛染上了新的颜色。）“It is Jane Eyre, sir.”“我是简•爱，先生。”“Soon to be Jane Rochester,” he added: “in four weeks, Janet; not a day more.  Do you hear that?”“很快就要叫作简．罗切斯特了”他补充说，“再过四周，珍妮特，一天也不多，你听到了吗？”I did, and I could not quite comprehend it: it made me giddy.  The feeling, the announcement sent through me, was something stronger than was consistent with joy—something that smote and stunned.  It was, I think almost fear.我听到了，但我并不理解，它便我头昏目眩。他的宣布在我心头所引起的感觉，是不同于喜悦的更强烈的东西——是一种给人打击、使你发呆的东西。我想这近乎是恐惧。“You blushed, and now you are white, Jane: what is that for?”“你刚才还脸红，现在脸色发白了，简。那是为什么？”“Because you gave me a new name—Jane Rochester; and it seems so strange.”“因为你给了我一个新名字——简．罗切斯特，而且听来很奇怪。”“Yes, Mrs. Rochester,” said he; “young Mrs. Rochester—Fairfax Rochester’s girl-bride.”“是的，罗切斯特夫人，”他说，“年青的罗切斯特夫人——费尔法克斯．罗切斯特的少女新娘。”“It can never be, sir; it does not sound likely.  Human beings never enjoy complete happiness in this world.  I was not born for a different destiny to the rest of my species: to imagine such a lot befalling me is a fairy tale—a day-dream.”“那永远不会，先生，听起来不大可能。在这个世界上，人类永远不能享受绝对幸福。我并不是生来与我的同类有不同的命运。只有在童话里，在白日梦里，才会想象这样的命运降临到我头上。”“Which I can and will realise.  I shall begin to-day.  This morning I wrote to my banker in London to send me certain jewels he has in his keeping,—heirlooms for the ladies of Thornfield.  In a day or two I hope to pour them into your lap: for every privilege, every attention shall be yours that I would accord a peer’s daughter, if about to marry her.”“我能够而且也要实现这样的梦想，我要从今天开始。今天早上我已写信给伦敦的银行代理人，让他送些托他保管的珠宝来——桑菲尔德女士们的传家宝。我希望一两天后涌进你的衣兜，我给予一个贵族姑娘——如果我要娶她的话——的一切特权和注意力，都将属于你。”“Oh, sir!—never rain jewels!  I don’t like to hear them spoken of.  Jewels for Jane Eyre sounds unnatural and strange: I would rather not have them.”“呵，先生！——别提珠宝了！我不喜欢说起珠宝。对简•爱来说，珠宝听来既不自然又很古怪，我宁可不要。”“I will myself put the diamond chain round your neck, and the circlet on your forehead,—which it will become: for nature, at least, has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow, Jane; and I will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists, and load these fairy-like fingers with rings.”“我会亲自把钻石项链套在你脖子上，把发箍戴在你额头——看上去会非常相配，因为大自然至少已把自己特有的高尚，烙在这个额头上了，简。而且我会把手镯按在纤细的手腕上，把戒指戴在仙女般的手指上。”“No, no, sir! think of other subjects, and speak of other things, and in another strain.  Don’t address me as if I were a beauty; I am your plain, Quakerish governess.”“不，不，先生，想想别的话题，讲讲别的事情，换种口气谈谈吧。不要当我美人似的同我说话，我不过是你普普通通，象贵格会教徒一样的家庭教师。”“You are a beauty in my eyes, and a beauty just after the desire of my heart,—delicate and aërial.”“在我眼里，你是个美人。一位心向往之的美人——娇美而空灵。”“Puny and insignificant, you mean.  You are dreaming, sir,—or you are sneering.  For God’s sake don’t be ironical!”“你的意思是瘦小而无足轻重吧。你在做梦呢，先生——不然就是有意取笑。看在老天面上，别挖苦人了！”“I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty, too,” he went on, while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted, because I felt he was either deluding himself or trying to delude me.  “I will attire my Jane in satin and lace, and she shall have roses in her hair; and I will cover the head I love best with a priceless veil.”“我还要全世界都承认，你是个美人，”他继续说，而我确实对他说话的口气感到不安，觉得他要不是自欺欺人，就是存心骗我。“我要让我的简•爱穿上缎子和花边衣服，头发上插玫瑰花，我还要在我最喜爱的头上，罩上无价的面纱。”“And then you won’t know me, sir; and I shall not be your Jane Eyre any longer, but an ape in a harlequin’s jacket—a jay in borrowed plumes.  I would as soon see you, Mr. Rochester, tricked out in stage-trappings, as myself clad in a court-lady’s robe; and I don’t call you handsome, sir, though I love you most dearly: far too dearly to flatter you.  Don’t flatter me.”“那你就不认识我了，先生，我不再是你的简•爱，而是穿了丑角衣装的猴子——一只披了别人羽毛的八哥。那样倒不如看你罗切斯特先生，一身戏装打扮，而我自己则穿上宫庭贵妇的长袍。先生，我并没有说你漂亮，尽管我非常爱你，太爱你了，所以不愿吹捧你。你就别捧我了。”He pursued his theme, however, without noticing my deprecation.  “This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote, and you must choose some dresses for yourself.  I told you we shall be married in four weeks.  The wedding is to take place quietly, in the church down below yonder; and then I shall waft you away at once to town.  After a brief stay there, I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun: to French vineyards and Italian plains; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record: she shall taste, too, of the life of cities; and she shall learn to value herself by just comparison with others.”然而他不顾我反对，扭住这个话题不放。“今天我就要坐着马车带你上米尔科特，你得为自己挑选些衣服。我同你说过了，四个星期后我们就结婚。婚礼将不事张扬，在下面那个教堂里举行。然后，我就立刻一阵风把你送到城里。短暂逗留后，我将带我的宝贝去阳光明媚的地方，到法国的葡萄园和意大利的平原去。古往今来凡有记载的名胜，她都得看看；城市风光，也该品尝。还得同别人公平地比较比较，让她知道自己的身价。”“Shall I travel?—and with you, sir?”“我要去旅行？——同你吗，先生？”“You shall sojourn at Paris, Rome, and Naples: at Florence, Venice, and Vienna: all the ground I have wandered over shall be re-trodden by you: wherever I stamped my hoof, your sylph’s foot shall step also.  Ten years since, I flew through Europe half mad; with disgust, hate, and rage as my companions: now I shall revisit it healed and cleansed, with a very angel as my comforter.”“你要住在巴黎、罗马和那不列斯，还有佛罗伦萨、威尼斯和维也纳。凡是我漫游过的地方，你都得重新去走走；凡我马蹄所至，你这位精灵也该涉足。十年之前，我几乎疯了似地跑遍了欧洲，只有厌恶、憎恨和愤怒同我作伴。如今我将旧地重游，痼疾己经痊愈，心灵已被涤荡，还有一位真正的天使给我安慰，与我同游。”I laughed at him as he said this.  “I am not an angel,” I asserted; “and I will not be one till I die: I will be myself.  Mr. Rochester, you must neither expect nor exact anything celestial of me—for you will not get it, any more than I shall get it of you: which I do not at all anticipate.”我笑他这么说话。“我不是天使，”我断言，“就是到死也不会是。我是我自己。罗切斯特先生，你不该在我身上指望或强求天上才有的东西。你不会得到的，就像我无法从你那儿得到一样，而且我是一点也不指望的。”“What do you anticipate of me?”“那你指望我什么呢？”“For a little while you will perhaps be as you are now,—a very little while; and then you will turn cool; and then you will be capricious; and then you will be stern, and I shall have much ado to please you: but when you get well used to me, you will perhaps like me again,—like me, I say, not love me.  I suppose your love will effervesce in six months, or less.  I have observed in books written by men, that period assigned as the farthest to which a husband’s ardour extends.  Yet, after all, as a friend and companion, I hope never to become quite distasteful to my dear master.”“在短期内，你也许会同现在一样——很短的时期，随后你会冷静下来，你会反复无常，又会严厉起来，而我得费尽心机，使你高兴，不过等你完全同我习惯了，你也许又会喜欢我——我说呀喜欢我，而不是爱我。我猜想六个月后、或者更短一些，你的爱情就会化为泡影，在由男人撰写的书中，我注意到，那是一个丈夫的热情所能保持的最长时期。不过毕竟作为朋友和伙伴，我希望决不要太讨我亲爱主人的嫌。”“Distasteful! and like you again!  I think I shall like you again, and yet again: and I will make you confess I do not only like, but love you—with truth, fervour, constancy.”“讨厌？又会喜欢你呢！我想我会一而再，再而三地喜欢你。我会让你承认，我不仅喜欢你，而且爱你——真挚、热情、始终如一。”“Yet are you not capricious, sir?”“你不再反反复复了，先生？”“To women who please me only by their faces, I am the very devil when I find out they have neither souls nor hearts—when they open to me a perspective of flatness, triviality, and perhaps imbecility, coarseness, and ill-temper: but to the clear eye and eloquent tongue, to the soul made of fire, and the character that bends but does not break—at once supple and stable, tractable and consistent—I am ever tender and true.”“对那些光靠容貌吸引我的女人，一旦我发现她们既没有灵魂也没有良心——一旦她们向我展示乏味、浅薄，也许还有愚蠢、粗俗和暴躁，我便成了真正的魔鬼。但是对眼明口快的，对心灵如火的，对既柔顺而又稳重、既驯服而又坚强，可弯而不可折的性格——我会永远温柔和真诚。”“Had you ever experience of such a character, sir?  Did you ever love such an one?”“你遇到过这样的性格吗，先生？你爱上过这样的性格吗？”“I love it now.”“我现在爱它了。”“But before me: if I, indeed, in any respect come up to your difficult standard?”“在我以前呢，假如我真的在各方面都符合你那苛刻的标准？”“I never met your likeness.  Jane, you please me, and you master me—you seem to submit, and I like the sense of pliancy you impart; and while I am twining the soft, silken skein round my finger, it sends a thrill up my arm to my heart.  I am influenced—conquered; and the influence is sweeter than I can express; and the conquest I undergo has a witchery beyond any triumph I can win.  Why do you smile, Jane?  What does that inexplicable, that uncanny turn of countenance mean?”“我从来没有遇到过可以跟你相提并论的人，简，你使我愉快。使我倾倒，——你似乎很顺从，而我喜欢你给人的能屈能伸的感觉。我把一束柔软的丝线，绕过手指时，一阵颤栗，从我的胳膊涌向我心里。我受到了感染——我被征服了。这种感染之甜蜜，不是我所能表达，这种被征服感之魅力，远胜于我赢得的任何胜利。你为什么笑了，简？你那令人费解、不可思议的表情变化，有什么含义？”“I was thinking, sir (you will excuse the idea; it was involuntary), I was thinking of Hercules and Samson with their charmers—”“我在想，先生（你会原谅我这个想法，油然而生的想法），我想起了赫拉克勒斯、参孙和使他们着迷的美女。”“You were, you little elfish—”“你就这么想，你这小精灵——”“Hush, sir!  You don’t talk very wisely just now; any more than those gentlemen acted very wisely.  However, had they been married, they would no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for their softness as suitors; and so will you, I fear.  I wonder how you will answer me a year hence, should I ask a favour it does not suit your convenience or pleasure to grant.”“唏，先生！就像那些先生们的举动并不聪明一样，你刚才说的话也并不聪明。不过，要是他们当初结了婚，毫无疑问，他们会一本正经地摆出夫君面孔，不再象求婚的时候那样柔情如水，我担心你也会一样。要是一年以后我请你做一件你不方便或者不乐意的事，不知你会怎样答复我。”“Ask me something now, Jane,—the least thing: I desire to be entreated—”“你现在就说一件事吧，简——哪怕是件小事，我渴望你求我——”“Indeed I will, sir; I have my petition all ready.”“真的，我会的，先生。我已作好请求的准备。”“Speak!  But if you look up and smile with that countenance, I shall swear concession before I know to what, and that will make a fool of me.”“说出来吧！不过你要是以那种神情抬头含笑，我会不知道你要求什么就满口答应，那就会使我上当。”“Not at all, sir; I ask only this: don’t send for the jewels, and don’t crown me with roses: you might as well put a border of gold lace round that plain pocket handkerchief you have there.”“绝对不会，先生。我只有一个要求，就是不要叫人送珠宝，不要让我头上戴满玫瑰花，你还不如把你那块普普通通的手帕镶上一条金边吧。”“I might as well ‘gild refined gold.’  I know it: your request is granted then—for the time.  I will remand the order I despatched to my banker.  But you have not yet asked for anything; you have prayed a gift to be withdrawn: try again.”“我还不如‘给纯金镶上金子’。我知道了，那么你的请求，我同意了——现在就这样。我会撤回送给银行代理人的订单。不过你还没有向我要什么呢，你只要求我收回礼物。再试一下吧。”“Well then, sir, have the goodness to gratify my curiosity, which is much piqued on one point.”“那么，好呀，先生。请你满足我在某一个问题上大大激起的好奇心。”He looked disturbed.  “What? what?” he said hastily.  “Curiosity is a dangerous petition: it is well I have not taken a vow to accord every request—”他显得不安了。“什么？什么？”他忙不迭地问。“好奇心是一位危险的请求者：幸亏我没有发誓同意你的每个要求——”“But there can be no danger in complying with this, sir.”“但是答应这个要求并没有什么危险，先生。”“Utter it, Jane: but I wish that instead of a mere inquiry into, perhaps, a secret, it was a wish for half my estate.”“说吧，简。不过但愿这不只是打听——也许打听一个秘密，而是希望得到我的一半家产。”“Now, King Ahasuerus!  What do I want with half your estate?  Do you think I am a Jew-usurer, seeking good investment in land?  I would much rather have all your confidence.  You will not exclude me from your confidence if you admit me to your heart?”“哎呀，亚哈随鲁王！我要你一半的家产干什么？你难道以为我是犹太高利贷者，要在土地上好好投资一番。我宁愿能同你推心置腹，要是你已答应向我敞开心扉，那你就不会不让我知道你的隐秘吧。”“You are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having, Jane; but for God’s sake, don’t desire a useless burden!  Don’t long for poison—don’t turn out a downright Eve on my hands!”“凡是一切值得知道的隐秘，简，都欢迎你知道。不过看在上帝面上，不要追求无用的负担！不要向往毒药——不要变成由我照管的十十足足的夏娃！”“Why not, sir?  You have just been telling me how much you liked to be conquered, and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you.  Don’t you think I had better take advantage of the confession, and begin and coax and entreat—even cry and be sulky if necessary—for the sake of a mere essay of my power?”“干嘛不呢，先生？你刚才还告诉我，你多么高兴被我征服，多么喜欢被我强行说服，你难道不认为，我不妨可利用一下你的表白，开始哄呀，求呀——必要时甚至还可哭哭闹闹，板起面孔——只不过为了尝试一下我的力量？”“I dare you to any such experiment.  Encroach, presume, and the game is up.”“看你敢不敢做这样的试验。步步进犯，肆无忌惮，那就一切都完了。”“Is it, sir?  You soon give in.  How stern you look now!  Your eyebrows have become as thick as my finger, and your forehead resembles what, in some very astonishing poetry, I once saw styled, ‘a blue-piled thunderloft.’  That will be your married look, sir, I suppose?”“是吗，先生？你很快就变卦了。这会儿你的表情多么严厉！你的眉头已皱得跟我的手指一般粗，你的前额像某些惊人诗篇所描写的那样犹如‘乌云重叠的雷霆。’我想那就是你结婚以后的神气了，先生？”“If that will be your married look, I, as a Christian, will soon give up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander.  But what had you to ask, thing,—out with it?”“如果你结婚后是那付样子，像我这样的基督徒，会立刻打消同无非是个小妖精或者水蛇厮混的念头。不过你该要什么呢，伙计？——说出来吧？”“There, you are less than civil now; and I like rudeness a great deal better than flattery.  I had rather be a thing than an angel.  This is what I have to ask,—Why did you take such pains to make me believe you wished to marry Miss Ingram?”“瞧，这会儿连礼貌也不讲了，我喜欢鲁莽，远胜于奉承。我宁愿做个伙计，也不愿做天使。我该问的就是——你为什么煞费苦心要我相信，你希望娶英格拉姆小姐？”“Is that all?  Thank God it is no worse!”  And now he unknit his black brows; looked down, smiling at me, and stroked my hair, as if well pleased at seeing a danger averted.  “I think I may confess,” he continued, “even although I should make you a little indignant, Jane—and I have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are indignant.  You glowed in the cool moonlight last night, when you mutinied against fate, and claimed your rank as my equal.  Janet, by-the-bye, it was you who made me the offer.”“就是这些吗？谢天谢地，不算太糟！”此时他松开了浓黑的眉头，低头朝我笑笑，还抚摸着我的头发，仿佛看到躲过了危险，十分庆幸似的。“我想还是坦率地说好。”他继续说。“尽管我要让你生点儿气，简——我看到了你一旦发怒，会变成怎样一位火妖。昨晚清凉的月光下，当你反抗命运，声言同我平等时，你的面容灼灼生光。珍妮特，顺便提一句，是你自己向我提出了那样的建议。”“Of course I did.  But to the point if you please, sir—Miss Ingram?”“当然是我，但是请你不要环顾左右了，先生——英格拉姆小姐。”“Well, I feigned courtship of Miss Ingram, because I wished to render you as madly in love with me as I was with you; and I knew jealousy would be the best ally I could call in for the furtherance of that end.”“好吧，我假意向英格拉姆小姐求婚，因为我希望使你发疯似他同我相受，就象我那么爱你一样，我明白，嫉妒是为达到目的所能召唤的最好同盟军。”“Excellent!  Now you are small—not one whit bigger than the end of my little finger.  It was a burning shame and a scandalous disgrace to act in that way.  Did you think nothing of Miss Ingram’s feelings, sir?”“好极了！现在你很渺小——丝毫不比我的小手指尖要大。简直是奇耻大辱，这种想法可耻透顶，难道你一点也不想想英格拉姆小姐的感情吗，先生？”“Her feelings are concentrated in one—pride; and that needs humbling.  Were you jealous, Jane?”“她的感情集于一点——自负。那就需要把她的气焰压下去。你妒嫉了吗，先生？”“Never mind, Mr. Rochester: it is in no way interesting to you to know that.  Answer me truly once more.  Do you think Miss Ingram will not suffer from your dishonest coquetry?  Won’t she feel forsaken and deserted?”“别管了，罗切斯特先生。你是不在乎知道这个的的。再次老实回答我，你不认为你不光彩的调情会使英格拉姆小姐感到痛苦吗？难道她不会有被遗弃的感觉吗？”“Impossible!—when I told you how she, on the contrary, deserted me: the idea of my insolvency cooled, or rather extinguished, her flame in a moment.”“不可能！——我曾同你说过，相反是她抛弃了我，一想到我无力还债，她的热情顿时一落千丈，化为乌有。”“You have a curious, designing mind, Mr. Rochester.  I am afraid your principles on some points are eccentric.”“你有一个奇怪而工于心计的头脑，罗切斯特先生。恐怕你在某些方面的人生准则有违常理。”“My principles were never trained, Jane: they may have grown a little awry for want of attention.”“我的准则从来没有受过调教，简。由于缺乏照应，难免会出差错。”“Once again, seriously; may I enjoy the great good that has been vouchsafed to me, without fearing that any one else is suffering the bitter pain I myself felt a while ago?”“再严肃问一遍，我可以享受向我担保的巨大幸福，而不必担心别人也像我刚才一样蒙受剧痛吗？”“That you may, my good little girl: there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself—for I lay that pleasant unction to my soul, Jane, a belief in your affection.”“你可以，我的好小姑娘。世上没有第二个人对我怀着同你一样纯洁的爱——因为我把那愉快的油膏，也就是对你的爱的信任，贴到了我的心坎上。”I turned my lips to the hand that lay on my shoulder.  I loved him very much—more than I could trust myself to say—more than words had power to express.我把嘴唇转过去，吻了吻搭在我肩上的手。我深深地爱着他——深得连我自己也难以相信能说得清楚——深得非语言所能表达。“Ask something more,” he said presently; “it is my delight to be entreated, and to yield.”“再提些要求吧，”他立刻说。“我很乐意被人请求并作出让步。”I was again ready with my request.  “Communicate your intentions to Mrs. Fairfax, sir: she saw me with you last night in the hall, and she was shocked.  Give her some explanation before I see her again.  It pains me to be misjudged by so good a woman.”我再次准备好了请求。“把你的意图同费尔法克斯太太谈谈吧，昨晚她看见我同你呆在厅里，大吃一惊，我见她之前，你给她解释一下吧。让这样好的女人误解总让我痛苦。”“Go to your room, and put on your bonnet,” he replied.  “I mean you to accompany me to Millcote this morning; and while you prepare for the drive, I will enlighten the old lady’s understanding.  Did she think, Janet, you had given the world for love, and considered it well lost?”“上你自己的房间去，戴上你的帽子，”他回答。“早上我想让你陪我上米尔科特去一趟。你准备上车的时候，我会让这位老妇人开开窍。难道她认为，珍妮特，你为了爱而付出了一切，完全是得不偿失？”“I believe she thought I had forgotten my station, and yours, sir.”“我相信她认为我忘了自己的地位，还有你的地位，先生。”“Station! station!—your station is in my heart, and on the necks of those who would insult you, now or hereafter.—Go.”“地位！地位！——现在，或者从今以后，你的地位在我的心里，紧卡着那些想要污辱你的人的脖子——走！”I was soon dressed; and when I heard Mr. Rochester quit Mrs. Fairfax’s parlour, I hurried down to it.  The old lady, had been reading her morning portion of Scripture—the Lesson for the day; her Bible lay open before her, and her spectacles were upon it.  Her occupation, suspended by Mr. Rochester’s announcement, seemed now forgotten: her eyes, fixed on the blank wall opposite, expressed the surprise of a quiet mind stirred by unwonted tidings.  Seeing me, she roused herself: she made a sort of effort to smile, and framed a few words of congratulation; but the smile expired, and the sentence was abandoned unfinished.  She put up her spectacles, shut the Bible, and pushed her chair back from the table.我很快就穿好衣服，一听到罗切斯特先生离开费尔法克斯太太的起居室，便匆匆下楼赶到那里。这位老太太在读她早晨该读的一段《圣经》——那天的功课。面前摆着打开的《圣经》，《圣经》上放着一付眼镜。她忙着的事儿被罗切斯特先生的宣布打断后，此刻似乎已经忘记。她的眼睛呆呆地瞧着对面空无一物的墙上，流露出了一个平静的头脑被罕见的消息所激起的惊讶。见了我，她才回过神来，勉强笑了笑，凑了几句祝贺的话。但她的笑容收敛了，她的话讲了一半止住了。她戴上眼镜，合上《圣经》，把椅子从桌旁推开。“I feel so astonished,” she began, “I hardly know what to say to you, Miss Eyre.  I have surely not been dreaming, have I?  Sometimes I half fall asleep when I am sitting alone and fancy things that have never happened.  It has seemed to me more than once when I have been in a doze, that my dear husband, who died fifteen years since, has come in and sat down beside me; and that I have even heard him call me by my name, Alice, as he used to do.  Now, can you tell me whether it is actually true that Mr. Rochester has asked you to marry him?  Don’t laugh at me.  But I really thought he came in here five minutes ago, and said that in a month you would be his wife.”“我感到那么惊奇，”她开始说，“我真不知道对你说什么好，爱小姐。我肯定不是在做梦吧，是不是？有时候我独个儿坐着便朦朦胧胧地睡过去了，梦见了从来没有发生过的事情。在打盹的时候，我似乎不止一次看见我那位十年前去世的亲爱的丈夫，走进屋里，在我身边坐下，我甚至听他像以往一样叫唤我的名字艾丽斯。好吧，你能不能告诉我，罗切斯特先生真的已经向你求婚了吗？别笑话我，不过我真的认为他五分钟之前才进来对我说，一个月以后你就是他的妻子了。”“He has said the same thing to me,” I replied.“他同我说了同样的话，”我回答。“He has!  Do you believe him?  Have you accepted him?”“他说啦！你相信他吗？你接受了吗？”“Yes.”“是的。”She looked at me bewildered.  她大惑不解地看着我。“I could never have thought it.  He is a proud man: all the Rochesters were proud: and his father, at least, liked money.  He, too, has always been called careful.  He means to marry you?”“绝对想不到这点。他是一个很高傲的人。罗切斯特家族的人都很高傲，至少他的父亲很看重金钱，他也常被说成很谨慎。他的意思是要娶你吗？”“He tells me so.”“他这么告诉我的。”She surveyed my whole person: in her eyes I read that they had there found no charm powerful enough to solve the enigma.她把我从头到脚打量了一番，从她的目光中我知道，她这双眼睛并没有在我身上发现足以解开这个谜的魅力。“It passes me!” she continued; “but no doubt, it is true since you say so.  How it will answer, I cannot tell: I really don’t know.  Equality of position and fortune is often advisable in such cases; and there are twenty years of difference in your ages.  He might almost be your father.”“简直让我难以理解！”她继续说。“不过既然你这样说了，毫无疑问是真的了。以后的结局如何，我也说不上来。我真的不知道。在这类事情上，地位和财产方面彼此平等往往是明智的。何况你们两人的年龄相差二十岁，他差不多可以做你的父亲。”“No, indeed, Mrs. Fairfax!” exclaimed I, nettled; “he is nothing like my father!  No one, who saw us together, would suppose it for an instant.  Mr. Rochester looks as young, and is as young, as some men at five-and-twenty.”“不，真的，费尔法克斯太太！”我恼火地大叫说，“他丝毫不像我父亲！谁看见我们在一起，都绝不会有这种想法。罗切斯特先生依然显得很年轻，跟有些二十五岁的人一样。”“Is it really for love he is going to marry you?” she asked.“难道他真的是因为爱你而娶你的？”她问。I was so hurt by her coldness and scepticism, that the tears rose to my eyes.她的冷漠和怀疑使我心里非常难受，眼泪涌上了我的眼眶。“I am sorry to grieve you,” pursued the widow; “but you are so young, and so little acquainted with men, I wished to put you on your guard.  It is an old saying that ‘all is not gold that glitters;’ and in this case I do fear there will be something found to be different to what either you or I expect.”“对不起让你伤心了，”寡妇继续谈下去，“可是你那么年轻，跟男人接触又那么少，我希望让你存些戒心，老话说‘闪光的不一定都是金子’，而在这方面，我担心会出现你我所料想不到的事。”“Why?—am I a monster?” I said: “is it impossible that Mr. Rochester should have a sincere affection for me?”“为什么？难道我是个妖怪？”我说，“难道罗切斯特先生不可能真心爱我？”“No: you are very well; and much improved of late; and Mr. Rochester, I daresay, is fond of you.  I have always noticed that you were a sort of pet of his.  There are times when, for your sake, I have been a little uneasy at his marked preference, and have wished to put you on your guard: but I did not like to suggest even the possibility of wrong.  I knew such an idea would shock, perhaps offend you; and you were so discreet, and so thoroughly modest and sensible, I hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself.  Last night I cannot tell you what I suffered when I sought all over the house, and could find you nowhere, nor the master either; and then, at twelve o’clock, saw you come in with him.”“不，你很好，而且近来大有长进。我想罗切斯特先生很喜欢你。我一直注意到，你好像深得他宠爱，有时候为你着想，我对他明显的偏爱感到不安，而且希望你提防着点，但我甚至不想暗示会有出事的可能，我知道这种想法会使你吃惊，也许还会得罪你。你那么审慎，那么谦逊，那么通情达理，我希望可以信赖你保护自己。昨天晚上，我找遍了整幢房子，既没有见到你，也没有见到主人，而后来十二点钟时瞧见你同他一起进来，这时我的痛苦实在难以言传。”“Well, never mind that now,” I interrupted impatiently; “it is enough that all was right.”“好吧，现在就别去管它了，”我不耐烦地打断了她，“一切都很好，那就够了。”“I hope all will be right in the end,” she said: “but believe me, you cannot be too careful.  Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance: distrust yourself as well as him.  Gentlemen in his station are not accustomed to marry their governesses.”“但愿能善始善终，”她说，“不过。请相信我，你还是小心为是。设法与罗切斯特先生保持一段距离，既不要太自信，也不要太相信他，像他那样有地位的绅士是不习惯娶家庭教师的。”I was growing truly irritated: happily, Adèle ran in.我真的要光火了，幸亏阿黛勒跑了进来。“Let me go,—let me go to Millcote too!” she cried.  “Mr. Rochester won’t: though there is so much room in the new carriage.  Beg him to let me go mademoiselle.”“让我去——让我也去米尔科特！”她嚷嚷道。“罗切斯特先生不肯让我去，新马车里明明很空。求他让我去吧，小姐。”“That I will, Adèle;” and I hastened away with her, glad to quit my gloomy monitress.  The carriage was ready: they were bringing it round to the front, and my master was pacing the pavement, Pilot following him backwards and forwards.“我会的，阿黛勒，”我急急忙忙同她一起走开了，很乐意逃离这位丧气的监视者。马车已经准备停当。他们绕道将它停在前门，我的主人在石子路上踱步，派洛特忽前忽后跟着他。“Adèle may accompany us, may she not, sir?”“阿黛勒可以跟我们一起去吗，先生？”“I told her no.  I’ll have no brats!—I’ll have only you.”“我告诉过她了不行，我不要小丫头——我只要你。”“Do let her go, Mr. Rochester, if you please: it would be better.”“请无论如何让她去，罗切斯特先生，那样会更好些。”“Not it: she will be a restraint.”“不行，她会碍事。”He was quite peremptory, both in look and voice.  The chill of Mrs. Fairfax’s warnings, and the damp of her doubts were upon me: something of unsubstantiality and uncertainty had beset my hopes.  I half lost the sense of power over him.  I was about mechanically to obey him, without further remonstrance; but as he helped me into the carriage, he looked at my face.他声色俱厉。我想起了费尔法克斯太太令人寒心的警告和让我扫兴的疑虑，内心的希望便蒙上了一层虚幻渺茫的阴影。我自认能左右他的感觉失掉了一半。我正要机械地服从他，而不再规劝时，他扶我进了马车，瞧了瞧我的脸。，“What is the matter?” he asked; “all the sunshine is gone.  Do you really wish the bairn to go?  Will it annoy you if she is left behind?”“怎么啦？”他回答，“阳光全不见了，你真的希望这孩子去吗？要是把她拉下了，你会不高兴吗？”“I would far rather she went, sir.”“我很情愿她去，先生。”“Then off for your bonnet, and back like a flash of lightning!” cried he to Adèle.“那就去戴上你的帽子，象闪电一样快赶回来！”他朝阿黛勒喊道。She obeyed him with what speed she might.她以最快的速度按他的吩咐去办了。“After all, a single morning’s interruption will not matter much,” said he, “when I mean shortly to claim you—your thoughts, conversation, and company—for life.”“打搅一个早上毕竟无伤大雅，”他说：“反正我马上就要得到你了——你的思想、你的谈话和你的陪伴——永生永世。”Adèle, when lifted in, commenced kissing me, by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession: she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him.  She then peeped round to where I sat; so stern a neighbour was too restrictive to him, in his present fractious mood, she dared whisper no observations, nor ask of him any information.阿黛勒一被拎进车子，便开始吻起我来，以表示对我替她说情的感激。她很快被藏到了靠他一边的角落里。她随后偷偷地朝我坐的地方扫视了一下，那么严肃的一位邻座使她很拘束。他眼下性情浮躁，所以她即使看到了什么，也不敢悄声说话，就是想要知道什么，也不敢问他。“Let her come to me,” I entreated: “she will, perhaps, trouble you, sir: there is plenty of room on this side.”“让她到我这边来，”我恳求道。“或许她会碍着你，先生，我这边很空呢。”He handed her over as if she had been a lapdog.  “I’ll send her to school yet,” he said, but now he was smiling.他把她像递一只膝头的狗那样递了过来。“我要送她上学去，”他说，不过这会儿脸上浮着笑容。Adèle heard him, and asked if she was to go to school “sans mademoiselle?”阿黛勒听了就问他是不是上学校“sansmademoiselle？”“Yes,” he replied, “absolutely sans mademoiselle; for I am to take mademoiselle to the moon, and there I shall seek a cave in one of the white valleys among the volcano-tops, and mademoiselle shall live with me there, and only me.”“是的，”他回答，“完全‘sansmademoiselle，’因为我要带小姐到月亮上去，我要在火山顶上一个白色的山谷中找个山洞，小姐要同我住在那里，只同我一个人。”“She will have nothing to eat: you will starve her,” observed Adèle.“她会没有东西吃，你会把她饿坏的，”阿黛勒说。“I shall gather manna for her morning and night: the plains and hillsides in the moon are bleached with manna, Adèle.”“我会日夜采集吗哪给她，月亮上的平原和山边白茫茫一片都是吗哪，阿黛勒。”“She will want to warm herself: what will she do for a fire?”“她得暖和暖和身子，用什么生火呢？”“Fire rises out of the lunar mountains: when she is cold, I’ll carry her up to a peak, and lay her down on the edge of a crater.”“火会从月亮山上喷出来。她冷了，我会把她带到山巅，让她躺在火山口的边上。”“Oh, qu’ elle y sera mal—peu comfortable!  And her clothes, they will wear out: how can she get new ones?”“Oh，qu'elleyseramalpeuconfortable!还有她的衣服呢，都会穿坏的，哪儿去弄新的呢？”Mr. Rochester professed to be puzzled.  “Hem!” said he.  “What would you do, Adèle?  Cudgel your brains for an expedient.  How would a white or a pink cloud answer for a gown, do you think?  And one could cut a pretty enough scarf out of a rainbow.”罗切斯特先生承认自己也搞不清楚了。“哼！”他说，“你会怎么办呢，阿黛勒？动动脑筋，想个应付的办法。一片白云，或者一片粉红色的云做件长袍，你觉得怎么样？一抹彩虹做条围巾绰绰有余。”“She is far better as she is,” concluded Adèle, after musing some time: “besides, she would get tired of living with only you in the moon.  If I were mademoiselle, I would never consent to go with you.”“那她现在这样要好得多，”阿黛勒沉思片刻后断言道。“另外，在月亮上只跟你生活在一起，她会觉得厌烦的。要我是小姐，就决不会同意跟你去。”“She has consented: she has pledged her word.”“她已经同意了，还许下了诺言。”“But you can’t get her there; there is no road to the moon: it is all air; and neither you nor she can fly.”“但是你不可能把她弄到那儿，没有道路通月亮，全都是空气。而且你与她都不会飞。”“Adèle, look at that field.”  We were now outside Thornfield gates, and bowling lightly along the smooth road to Millcote, where the dust was well laid by the thunderstorm, and, where the low hedges and lofty timber trees on each side glistened green and rain-refreshed.“阿黛勒，瞧那边的田野，”这会儿我们已经出了桑菲尔德大门，沿着通往米尔科特平坦的道路，平稳而轻快地行驶着，暴风雨已经把尘土洗涤干净，路两旁低矮的树篱和挺拔的大树，雨后吐翠，分外新鲜。“In that field, Adèle, I was walking late one evening about a fortnight since—the evening of the day you helped me to make hay in the orchard meadows; and, as I was tired with raking swaths, I sat down to rest me on a stile; and there I took out a little book and a pencil, and began to write about a misfortune that befell me long ago, and a wish I had for happy days to come: I was writing away very fast, though daylight was fading from the leaf, when something came up the path and stopped two yards off me.  I looked at it.  It was a little thing with a veil of gossamer on its head.  I beckoned it to come near me; it stood soon at my knee.  I never spoke to it, and it never spoke to me, in words; but I read its eyes, and it read mine; and our speechless colloquy was to this effect—“在那边田野上，阿黛勒，两星期前的一个晚上，我溜达得晚了——就是你帮我在果园草地里晒干草的那天晚上。我耙着干草，不觉累了，便在一个草堆上躺下来休息一会。当时我取出一本小书和一枝铅笔，开始写起很久以前落到我头上的不幸，和对未来幸福日子的向往。我写得很快，但阳光从树叶上渐渐隐去，这时一个东西顺着小径走来，在离我两码远的地方停了下来。我看了看它，原来是个头上罩了薄纱的东西。我招呼它走近我，它很快就站到了我的膝头上，我没有同它说话，它也没有同我说话，我猜透它的眼神，它也猜透了我的眼神。我们之间无声的谈话大致的意思是这样：“It was a fairy, and come from Elf-land, it said; and its errand was to make me happy: I must go with it out of the common world to a lonely place—such as the moon, for instance—and it nodded its head towards her horn, rising over Hay-hill: it told me of the alabaster cave and silver vale where we might live.  I said I should like to go; but reminded it, as you did me, that I had no wings to fly.‘它是个小精灵，从精灵仙境来的，它说。它的差使是使我幸福，我必须同它一起离开凡间，到一个人迹罕至的地方——譬如月亮上——它朝干草山上升起的月牙儿点了点头。它告诉我，我们可以住在石膏山洞和银色的溪谷里。我说我想去，但我就像你刚才提醒那样，提醒它我没有翅膀，不会飞。’”“‘Oh,’ returned the fairy, ‘that does not signify!  Here is a talisman will remove all difficulties;’ and she held out a pretty gold ring.  ‘Put it,’ she said, ‘on the fourth finger of my left hand, and I am yours, and you are mine; and we shall leave earth, and make our own heaven yonder.’  She nodded again at the moon.  The ring, Adèle, is in my breeches-pocket, under the disguise of a sovereign: but I mean soon to change it to a ring again.”“‘呵，’那精灵回答说，‘这没有关系！这里有个护身符，可以排除—切障碍。’她递过来一个漂亮的金戒指。‘戴上它吧’，‘戴在我左手第四个手指上，我就属于你，你就属于我了。我们将离开地球，到那边建立自己的天地。’她再次朝月亮点了点头。阿黛勒，这个戒指就在我裤子袋袋里，化作了一金镑硬币，不过我要它很快又变成戒子。”“But what has mademoiselle to do with it?  I don’t care for the fairy: you said it was mademoiselle you would take to the moon?”“可是那与小姐有什么关系呢？我才不在乎精灵呢，你不是说过你要带到月亮去的是小姐吗——？”“Mademoiselle is a fairy,” he said, whispering mysteriously.  Whereupon I told her not to mind his badinage; and she, on her part, evinced a fund of genuine French scepticism: denominating Mr. Rochester “un vrai menteur,” and assuring him that she made no account whatever of his “contes de fée,” and that “du reste, il n’y avait pas de fées, et quand même il y en avait:” she was sure they would never appear to him, nor ever give him rings, or offer to live with him in the moon.“小姐是个精灵，”他神秘地耳语着说。因此我告诉她别去管他的玩笑了。而她却显示了丰富道地的法国式怀疑主义，把罗切斯特先生称作“unvraimenteur”，向他明确表示她毫不在乎他的“Contesdefee”还说“dureste，iln'yavaitpasdefees，etquandmemeilyenavait”，她敢肯定，她们也决不会出现在他面前，也不会给他戒指，或者建议同他一起住在月亮上。The hour spent at Millcote was a somewhat harassing one to me.  Mr. Rochester obliged me to go to a certain silk warehouse: there I was ordered to choose half-a-dozen dresses.  I hated the business, I begged leave to defer it: no—it should be gone through with now.  By dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers, I reduced the half-dozen to two: these however, he vowed he would select himself.  With anxiety I watched his eye rove over the gay stores: he fixed on a rich silk of the most brilliant amethyst dye, and a superb pink satin.  I told him in a new series of whispers, that he might as well buy me a gold gown and a silver bonnet at once: I should certainly never venture to wear his choice.  With infinite difficulty, for he was stubborn as a stone, I persuaded him to make an exchange in favour of a sober black satin and pearl-grey silk.  “It might pass for the present,” he said; “but he would yet see me glittering like a parterre.”在米尔科特度过的一段时间很有些折磨人。罗切斯特先生硬要我到一家丝绸货栈去，到了那里命令我挑选六件衣服。我讨厌这事儿，请求推迟一下。不行——现在就得办妥。经我拼命在他耳边恳求，才由六件减为两件。然而他发誓要亲自挑选些衣服。我焦急地瞧着他的目光在五颜六色的店铺中逡巡，最后落在一块色泽鲜艳、富丽堂皇的紫晶色丝绸上和一块粉红色高级缎子上。我又重新悄悄地告诉他，还不如马上给我买件金袍子和一顶银帽子。我当然决不会冒昧地去穿他选择的衣服。费了九牛二虎之力，（因为他像顽石一般固执）我才说服他换一块素静的黑色缎子和珠灰色的丝绸。“暂时可以凑乎了”他说。但他要让我看上去像花圃一样耀眼。Glad was I to get him out of the silk warehouse, and then out of a jewellers shop: the more he bought me, the more my cheek burned with a sense of annoyance and degradation.  As we re-entered the carriage, and I sat back feverish and fagged, I remembered what, in the hurry of events, dark and bright, I had wholly forgotten—the letter of my uncle, John Eyre, to Mrs. Reed: his intention to adopt me and make me his legatee.  “It would, indeed, be a relief,” I thought, “if I had ever so small an independency; I never can bear being dressed like a doll by Mr. Rochester, or sitting like a second Danae with the golden shower falling daily round me.  I will write to Madeira the moment I get home, and tell my uncle John I am going to be married, and to whom: if I had but a prospect of one day bringing Mr. Rochester an accession of fortune, I could better endure to be kept by him now.”  And somewhat relieved by this idea (which I failed not to execute that day), I ventured once more to meet my master’s and lover’s eye, which most pertinaciously sought mine, though I averted both face and gaze.  He smiled; and I thought his smile was such as a sultan might, in a blissful and fond moment, bestow on a slave his gold and gems had enriched: I crushed his hand, which was ever hunting mine, vigorously, and thrust it back to him red with the passionate pressure.我庆幸自己出了丝绸货栈，随后又离开了一家珠宝店。他给我买的东西越多，我的脸颊也因为恼恨和堕落感而更加烧灼得厉害了。我再次进了马车，往后一靠坐了下来，心里热辣辣，身子疲惫不堪。这时我想起来了，随着光明和暗淡的岁月的流逝，我已完全忘却了我叔叔约翰．爱写给里德太太的信，忘了他要收养我让我成为他遗产继承人的打算。“如果我有那么一点儿独立财产的话。”我想，“说实在我会心安理得的。我绝不能忍受罗切斯特先生把我打扮成像玩偶一样，或者像第二个达那厄那样坐着，每天让金雨洒遍全身。我一到家就要写信到马德里，告诉我叔叔约翰，我要结婚了及跟谁结婚。如果我能期望有一天给罗切斯特先生带来一笔新增的财产，那我可以更好地忍受现在由他养起来了。”这么一想，心里便感到有些宽慰（这个想法那天没有实现），我再次大胆地与我主人兼恋人的目光相遇。尽管我避开他的面容和目光，他的目光却执拗地搜寻着我的。他微微一笑。我想他的微笑是一个苏丹在欣喜和多情的时刻，赐予他刚给了金银财宝的奴隶的。他的手一直在找寻我的手，我使劲握了它一下，把那只被满腔激情压红了的手甩了回去。“You need not look in that way,” I said; “if you do, I’ll wear nothing but my old Lowood frocks to the end of the chapter.  I’ll be married in this lilac gingham: you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk, and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin.”“你不必摆出那付面孔来，”我说。“要是你这样，我就始终什么也不穿，光穿我那身罗沃德学校的旧外套。结婚的时候我穿那套淡紫方格布衣服——你自己尽可以用珠灰色丝绸做一件睡袍，用黑色的缎子做无数件背心。”He chuckled; he rubbed his hands.  “Oh, it is rich to see and hear her?” he exclaimed.  “Is she original?  Is she piquant?  I would not exchange this one little English girl for the Grand Turk’s whole seraglio, gazelle-eyes, houri forms, and all!”他哧地笑了起来，一面搓着手。“呵，看她那样子，听她说话真有趣！”他大声叫了起来。“她不是不可多得的吗？她不是很泼辣的吗？我可不愿用这个英国小姑娘去换取土耳其王后宫的全部嫔妃，即便她们有羚羊般眼睛，女神一般的形体！”The Eastern allusion bit me again.  “I’ll not stand you an inch in the stead of a seraglio,” I said; “so don’t consider me an equivalent for one.  If you have a fancy for anything in that line, away with you, sir, to the bazaars of Stamboul without delay, and lay out in extensive slave-purchases some of that spare cash you seem at a loss to spend satisfactorily here.”这个东方的比喻又一次刺痛了我。“我丝毫比不了你后宫中的嫔妃，”我说，“所以你就别把我同她们相提并论，要是你喜欢这类东西，那你就走吧，先生，立刻就到伊斯坦布尔的市场上去，把你不知道如何开开心心在这儿花掉的部分现金，投入到大宗奴隶购买上去。”“And what will you do, Janet, while I am bargaining for so many tons of flesh and such an assortment of black eyes?”“珍妮特，我在为无数吨肉和各类黑色眼睛讨价还价时，你会干什么呢？”“I’ll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved—your harem inmates amongst the rest.  I’ll get admitted there, and I’ll stir up mutiny; and you, three-tailed bashaw as you are, sir, shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our hands: nor will I, for one, consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter, the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred.”“我会收拾行装，出去当个传教士，向那些被奴役的人—一你的三宫六院们，宣扬自由。我会进入后宫，鼓动造反。纵然你是三尾帕夏，转眼之间，你会被我们的人戴上镣铐，除非你签署一个宪章，有史以来的专制君王所签发的最宽容的宪章，不然至少我是不会同意砸烂镣铐的。”“I would consent to be at your mercy, Jane.”“我同意听你摆布，盼你开恩，简。”“I would have no mercy, Mr. Rochester, if you supplicated for it with an eye like that.  While you looked so, I should be certain that whatever charter you might grant under coercion, your first act, when released, would be to violate its conditions.”“要是你用那种目光来恳求，罗切斯特先生，那我不会开恩。我敢肯定，只要你摆出那付面孔，无论你在被迫的情况下同意哪种宪章，你获释后要干的第一件事，便是破坏宪章的条件。”“Why, Jane, what would you have?  I fear you will compel me to go through a private marriage ceremony, besides that performed at the altar.  You will stipulate, I see, for peculiar terms—what will they be?”“嗨，简，你需要什么呢？恐怕除了圣坛前的结婚仪式之外，你一定要我私下再举行一次婚礼吧。看得出来，你会规定一些特殊的条件——是些什么条件呢？”“I only want an easy mind, sir; not crushed by crowded obligations.  Do you remember what you said of Céline Varens?—of the diamonds, the cashmeres you gave her?  I will not be your English Céline Varens.  I shall continue to act as Adèle’s governess; by that I shall earn my board and lodging, and thirty pounds a year besides.  I’ll furnish my own wardrobe out of that money, and you shall give me nothing but—”“我只求内心的安宁，先生，而不被应接不暇的恩惠压得透不过气来。你还记得你是怎么说塞莉纳．瓦伦的吗？——说起你送给她的钻石和毛料？我不会做你英国的塞莉纳．瓦伦。我会继续当阿黛勒的家庭教师，挣得我的食宿，以及三十镑的年薪，我会用这笔钱购置自己的衣装，你什么都不必给我，除了……”“Well, but what?”“噢，除了什么呀？”“Your regard; and if I give you mine in return, that debt will be quit.”“你的尊重。而我也报之以我的尊重，这样这笔债就两清了。”“Well, for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven’t your equal,” said he.  We were now approaching Thornfield.  “Will it please you to dine with me to-day?” he asked, as we re-entered the gates.“嘿，就冷漠无礼的天性和过分自尊的痼疾而言，你简直无与伦比。”他说。这时我们驶近了桑菲尔德，“你乐意今天同我一起吃饭吗？”我们再次驶进大门时，他问。“No, thank you, sir.”“不，谢谢你，先生。”“And what for, ‘no, thank you?’ if one may inquire.”“干嘛‘不，谢谢你呢？’要是我可以问的话。”“I never have dined with you, sir: and I see no reason why I should now: till—”“我从来没有同你一起吃过饭，先生。也看不出有什么理由现在要这样做，直等到．”“Till what?  You delight in half-phrases.”“直等到什么呀？你喜欢吞吞吐吐。”“Till I can’t help it.”“直等到我万不得已的时候。”“Do you suppose I eat like an ogre or a ghoul, that you dread being the companion of my repast?”“你设想我吃起来象吃人的魔王，食尸的鬼魂，所以你害怕陪我吃饭？”“I have formed no supposition on the subject, sir; but I want to go on as usual for another month.”“关于这点，我没有任何设想，先生，但是我想再过上一个月往常的日子。”“You will give up your governessing slavery at once.”“你应该马上放弃家庭教师这苦差使。”“Indeed, begging your pardon, sir, I shall not.  I shall just go on with it as usual.  I shall keep out of your way all day, as I have been accustomed to do: you may send for me in the evening, when you feel disposed to see me, and I’ll come then; but at no other time.”“真的：请原谅，先生，我不放弃。我还是像往常一样过日子，照例整天不同你见面，晚上你想见我了，便可以派人来叫我，我会来的，但别的时候不行。”“I want a smoke, Jane, or a pinch of snuff, to comfort me under all this, ‘pour me donner une contenance,’ as Adèle would say; and unfortunately I have neither my cigar-case, nor my snuff-box.  But listen—whisper.  It is your time now, little tyrant, but it will be mine presently; and when once I have fairly seized you, to have and to hold, I’ll just—figuratively speaking—attach you to a chain like this” (touching his watch-guard).  “Yes, bonny wee thing, I’ll wear you in my bosom, lest my jewel I should tyne.”“在这种情况下，简，我想吸一支烟，或者一撮鼻烟，安慰安慰自己，像阿黛勒会说的‘pourmedonnerunecontenance’’。但要命的是，我既没有带雪茄烟盒，也没有带鼻烟壶。不过听着——悄悄同你说——现在你春风得意，小暴君，不过我很快就会时来运转。有朝一日牢牢抓住了你，我就会——打个比方——把你象这样拴在一根链条上（摸了摸他的表链），紧紧捆住不放。是的，美丽的小不点儿，我要把你揣在怀里，免得丢掉了我的宝贝。”He said this as he helped me to alight from the carriage, and while he afterwards lifted out Adèle, I entered the house, and made good my retreat upstairs.他一边说一边扶我走下了马车，当他随后去抱阿黛勒下来时，我乘机进了屋，溜到了楼上。He duly summoned me to his presence in the evening.  I had prepared an occupation for him; for I was determined not to spend the whole time in a tête-à-tête conversation.  I remembered his fine voice; I knew he liked to sing—good singers generally do.  I was no vocalist myself, and, in his fastidious judgment, no musician, either; but I delighted in listening when the performance was good.  No sooner had twilight, that hour of romance, began to lower her blue and starry banner over the lattice, than I rose, opened the piano, and entreated him, for the love of heaven, to give me a song.  He said I was a capricious witch, and that he would rather sing another time; but I averred that no time was like the present.傍晚时他按时把我叫了去。我早已准备了事儿让他干，因为我决不想整个晚上跟他这么促膝谈心。我记得他的嗓子很漂亮，还知道他喜欢唱歌——好歌手一般都这样。我自己不会唱歌，而且按他那种苛刻的标准，我也不懂音乐。但我喜欢听出色的表演。黄昏薄暮的浪漫时刻，刚把星光闪烁的蓝色旗帜降到窗格上，我便立起身来，打开钢琴，求他一定得给我唱个歌。他说我是个捉摸不透的女巫，他还是其他时候唱好，但我口口声声说没有比现在更合适了。“Did I like his voice?” he asked.他问我，喜欢他的嗓子么？“Very much.”  I was not fond of pampering that susceptible vanity of his; but for once, and from motives of expediency, I would e’en soothe and stimulate it.“很喜欢，”我本不乐意纵容他敏感的虚荣心，但只那么一次，又出于一时需要，我甚至会迎合和怂恿这样的虚荣心。“Then, Jane, you must play the accompaniment.”“那么，简，你得伴奏。”“Very well, sir, I will try.”“很好，先生，我可以试试。”I did try, but was presently swept off the stool and denominated “a little bungler.”  Being pushed unceremoniously to one side—which was precisely what I wished—he usurped my place, and proceeded to accompany himself: for he could play as well as sing.  I hied me to the window-recess.  And while I sat there and looked out on the still trees and dim lawn, to a sweet air was sung in mellow tones the following strain:—我的确试了试。但立即被赶下了琴凳，而且被称作“笨手笨脚的小东西。”他把我无礼地推到了一边一—这正中我下怀—一，抢占了位置，开始为自己伴奏起来，因为他既能唱又能弹。我赶紧走向窗子的壁龛，坐在那里，眺望着沉寂的树木和昏暗的草地，听他以醇厚的嗓音，和着优美的旋律，唱起了下面的歌：“The truest love that ever heart
   Felt at its kindled core,
Did through each vein, in quickened start,
   The tide of being pour.从燃烧着的心窝，
感受到了最真诚的爱，
把生命的潮流，
欢快地注进每根血管。Her coming was my hope each day,
   Her parting was my pain;
The chance that did her steps delay
   Was ice in every vein.每天，她的来临是我的希望，
她的别离是我的痛苦。
她脚步的偶尔延宕，
使我的每根血管成了冰窟。I dreamed it would be nameless bliss,
   As I loved, loved to be;
And to this object did I press
   As blind as eagerly.我梦想，我爱别人，别人爱我，
是一种莫名的幸福。
朝着这个目标我往前疾走，心情急切，又十分盲目。But wide as pathless was the space
   That lay our lives between,
And dangerous as the foamy race
   Of ocean-surges green.谁知在我们两个生命之间，
横亘着无路的广漠。
白茫茫湍急而又危险，
犹如翻江倒海的绿波。And haunted as a robber-path
   Through wilderness or wood;
For Might and Right, and Woe and Wrath,
   Between our spirits stood.犹如盗贼出没的小路，
穿过山林和荒漠。
强权和公理，忧伤和愤怒，
使我们的心灵两相隔膜。I dangers dared; I hindrance scorned;
   I omens did defy:
Whatever menaced, harassed, warned,
   I passed impetuous by.艰难险阻，我毫不畏惧，种种凶兆，我敢于蔑视。一切骚扰、警告和威胁，
我都漠然处置。On sped my rainbow, fast as light;
   I flew as in a dream;
For glorious rose upon my sight
   That child of Shower and Gleam.我的彩虹如闪电般疾驰，
我在梦中飞翔。
光焰焰横空出世，
我眼前是阵雨和骄阳。Still bright on clouds of suffering dim
   Shines that soft, solemn joy;
Nor care I now, how dense and grim
   Disasters gather nigh.那温柔庄严的欢欣，
仍照耀着灰暗苦难的云雾
尽管阴森险恶的灾难已经逼近，这会儿我已毫不在乎。I care not in this moment sweet,
   Though all I have rushed o’er
Should come on pinion, strong and fleet,
   Proclaiming vengeance sore:在这甜蜜的时刻我已无所顾忌，
虽然我曾冲破的一切险阻，
再度展翅迅猛袭击，
宣布要无情地报复。Though haughty Hate should strike me down,
   Right, bar approach to me,
And grinding Might, with furious frown,
   Swear endless enmity.尽管高傲的憎恨会把我击倒，
公理不容我上前分辩。
残暴的强权怒火中烧，
发誓永与我不共戴天。My love has placed her little hand
   With noble faith in mine,
And vowed that wedlock’s sacred band
   Our nature shall entwine.我的心上人带着崇高的信赖，
把她的小手放在我的手里。
宣誓让婚姻的神圣纽带，把我们两人紧系在一起。My love has sworn, with sealing kiss,
   With me to live—to die;
I have at last my nameless bliss.
   As I love—loved am I!”我的心上人用永不变心的一吻，
发誓与我生死同受。
我终于得到了莫名的幸福，
我爱别人—一别人也爱我。He rose and came towards me, and I saw his face all kindled, and his full falcon-eye flashing, and tenderness and passion in every lineament.  I quailed momentarily—then I rallied.  Soft scene, daring demonstration, I would not have; and I stood in peril of both: a weapon of defence must be prepared—I whetted my tongue: as he reached me, I asked with asperity, “whom he was going to marry now?”他立起身，向我走来。我见他满脸都燃烧着热情的火焰，圆圆的鹰眼闪闪发光，脸上充溢着温柔与激情。我一时有些畏缩—一但随后便振作起来了。柔情蜜意的场面，大胆露骨的表示，我都不希望发生。但两种危险我都面临着。我必须准备好防患的武器——我磨尖了舌头，待他一走近我，便厉声问道，他现在要跟谁结婚呢？“That was a strange question to be put by his darling Jane.”“我的宝贝简提出了这么个怪问题。”“Indeed!  I considered it a very natural and necessary one: he had talked of his future wife dying with him.  What did he mean by such a pagan idea?  I had no intention of dying with him—he might depend on that.”“真的！我以为这是个很自然很必要的问题，他已经谈起未来的妻子同他一起死，他这个异教徒念头是什么意思？我可不想与他一起死一—他尽可放心。”“Oh, all he longed, all he prayed for, was that I might live with him!  Death was not for such as I.”“呵，他所向往，他所祈祷的是你与他一块儿活！死亡不是属于像你这样的人。”“Indeed it was: I had as good a right to die when my time came as he had: but I should bide that time, and not be hurried away in a suttee.”“自然也是属于我的，我跟他一样，时候一到，照样有权去死。但我要等到寿终正寝，而不是自焚殉夫，匆匆了此一生。”“Would I forgive him for the selfish idea, and prove my pardon by a reconciling kiss?”“你能宽恕他这种自私的想法，给他一个吻，表示原谅与和解吗？”“No: I would rather be excused.”“不，我宁可免了。”Here I heard myself apostrophised as a “hard little thing;” and it was added, “any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise.”这时我听见他称我为“心如铁石的小东西，”并且又加了一句“换了别的女人，听了这样的赞歌，心早就化了。”I assured him I was naturally hard—very flinty, and that he would often find me so; and that, moreover, I was determined to show him divers rugged points in my character before the ensuing four weeks elapsed: he should know fully what sort of a bargain he had made, while there was yet time to rescind it.我明确告诉他，我生就了硬心肠——硬如铁石，他会发现我经常如此。何况我决计在今后的四周中，让他看看我性格中倔强的一面。他应当完全明白，他订的是怎样的婚约，趁现在还来得及的时候把它取消。“Would I be quiet and talk rationally?”“你愿意平心静气，合情合理说话吗？”“I would be quiet if he liked, and as to talking rationally, I flattered myself I was doing that now.”“要是你高兴，我会平心静气的，至于说话合情合理，那我不是自吹，我现在就是这么做的。”He fretted, pished, and pshawed.  “Very good,” I thought; “you may fume and fidget as you please: but this is the best plan to pursue with you, I am certain.  I like you more than I can say; but I’ll not sink into a bathos of sentiment: and with this needle of repartee I’ll keep you from the edge of the gulf too; and, moreover, maintain by its pungent aid that distance between you and myself most conducive to our real mutual advantage.”他很恼火，嘴里呸呀啐的。“很好，”我想，“你高兴光火就光火，烦躁就烦躁吧，但我相信，这是对付你的最好办法。尽管我对你的喜欢，非言语所能表达，但我不愿落入多情善感的流俗，我要用这巧辩的锋芒，让你悬崖勒马。除此之外，话中带刺，有助于保持我们之间对彼此都很有利的距离。”From less to more, I worked him up to considerable irritation; then, after he had retired, in dudgeon, quite to the other end of the room, I got up, and saying, “I wish you good-night, sir,” in my natural and wonted respectful manner, I slipped out by the side-door and got away.我得寸进尺，惹得他很恼火，随后趁他怒悻悻地退到屋子另一头的时候，站起来象往常那样自自然然、恭恭敬敬地说了声“祝你晚安，先生，”便溜出边门走掉了。The system thus entered on, I pursued during the whole season of probation; and with the best success.  He was kept, to be sure, rather cross and crusty; but on the whole I could see he was excellently entertained, and that a lamb-like submission and turtle-dove sensibility, while fostering his despotism more, would have pleased his judgment, satisfied his common-sense, and even suited his taste less.这方式开了一个头，我便在整个观察期坚持下来了，而且大获成功。当然他悻悻然有些发火，但总的说来，我见他心情挺不错。而绵羊般的顺从，斑鸠似的多情，倒反而既会助长他的专横，又不能象现在这样取悦他的理智，满足他的常识，甚至投合他的趣味。In other people’s presence I was, as formerly, deferential and quiet; any other line of conduct being uncalled for: it was only in the evening conferences I thus thwarted and afflicted him.  He continued to send for me punctually the moment the clock struck seven; though when I appeared before him now, he had no such honeyed terms as “love” and “darling” on his lips: the best words at my service were “provoking puppet,” “malicious elf,” “sprite,” “changeling,” &c.  For caresses, too, I now got grimaces; for a pressure of the hand, a pinch on the arm; for a kiss on the cheek, a severe tweak of the ear.  It was all right: at present I decidedly preferred these fierce favours to anything more tender.  Mrs. Fairfax, I saw, approved me: her anxiety on my account vanished; therefore I was certain I did well.  Meantime, Mr. Rochester affirmed I was wearing him to skin and bone, and threatened awful vengeance for my present conduct at some period fast coming.  I laughed in my sleeve at his menaces.  “I can keep you in reasonable check now,” I reflected; “and I don’t doubt to be able to do it hereafter: if one expedient loses its virtue, another must be devised.”别人在场的时候，我照例显得恭敬文雅，其他举动都没有必要。只有在晚上交谈时，才那么冲撞他，折磨他。他仍然那么钟一敲七点便准时把我叫去，不过在他跟前时，他不再满嘴“亲爱的”、“恶毒的精灵”、“宝贝儿”那样的甜蜜称呼了。用在我身上最好的字眼是“令人恼火的木偶”、“小妖精”、“小傻瓜”等等。如今我得到的不是抚慰，而是鬼脸；不是紧紧握手，而是拧一下胳膊；不是吻一下脸颊，而是使劲拉拉耳朵。这倒不错。眼下我确实更喜欢这种粗野的宠爱，而不喜欢什么温柔的表露。我发现费尔法克斯太太也赞成，而且已不再为我担忧了，因此我确信自己做得很对。与此同时，罗切斯特先生却口口声声说我把他折磨得皮包骨头了，并威胁在即将到来的某个时期，对我现在的行为狠狠报复。他的恫吓，我暗自觉得好笑。“现在我可以让你受到合乎情理的约束，”我思忖道，“我并不怀疑今后还能这么做，要是一种办法失效了，那就得另外再想出一种来。”Yet after all my task was not an easy one; often I would rather have pleased than teased him.  My future husband was becoming to me my whole world; and more than the world: almost my hope of heaven.  He stood between me and every thought of religion, as an eclipse intervenes between man and the broad sun.  I could not, in those days, see God for His creature: of whom I had made an idol.然而，我的担子毕竟并不轻松，我总是情愿讨他喜欢而不是捉弄他。我的未婚夫正成为我的整个世界，不仅是整个世界，而且几乎成了我进入天堂的希望。他把我和一切宗教观念隔开，犹如日蚀把人类和太阳隔开一样。在那些日子里，我把上帝的造物当作了偶像，并因为他，而看不见上帝了。CHAPTER XXV第二十五章The month of courtship had wasted: its very last hours were being numbered.  There was no putting off the day that advanced—the bridal day; and all preparations for its arrival were complete.  I, at least, had nothing more to do: there were my trunks, packed, locked, corded, ranged in a row along the wall of my little chamber; to-morrow, at this time, they would be far on their road to London: and so should I (D.V.),—or rather, not I, but one Jane Rochester, a person whom as yet I knew not.  The cards of address alone remained to nail on: they lay, four little squares, in the drawer.  Mr. Rochester had himself written the direction, “Mrs. Rochester, --- Hotel, London,” on each: I could not persuade myself to affix them, or to have them affixed.  Mrs. Rochester!  She did not exist: she would not be born till to-morrow, some time after eight o’clock a.m.; and I would wait to be assured she had come into the world alive before I assigned to her all that property.  It was enough that in yonder closet, opposite my dressing-table, garments said to be hers had already displaced my black stuff Lowood frock and straw bonnet: for not to me appertained that suit of wedding raiment; the pearl-coloured robe, the vapoury veil pendent from the usurped portmanteau. 一个月的求婚期过去了，只剩下了最后几个小时。结婚的日子已经临近，不会推迟。一切准备工作也已就绪，至少我手头没有别的事儿要干了。我的箱子已收拾停当，锁好，捆好，沿小房间的墙根，一字儿摆开，明天这个时候，这些东西会早已登上去伦敦的旅程，还有我（如蒙上帝恩允）——或者不如说，不是我而是一位我目前尚不认识的，叫作简．罗切斯特的人，只有地址标签还没贴上，那四个小方块仍躺在抽屉里。罗切斯特先生亲自在每个标签上书写了：“伦敦××旅馆罗切斯特太太”这几个字。我无法让自己或者别人把它们贴上去。罗切斯特太太！她并不存在，要到明天八点钟后的某个时候才降生。我得等到完全相信她已经活生生地来到这个世界时，才把那份财产划归她。在我梳妆台对面的衣柜里，一些据说是她的衣物，已经取代了她罗沃德的黑呢上衣和草帽。这已经是足够的了，因为那套婚礼服，以及垂挂在临时占用的钩子上的珠白色长袍和簿雾似的面纱，本不属于她的。I shut the closet to conceal the strange, wraith-like apparel it contained; which, at this evening hour—nine o’clock—gave out certainly a most ghostly shimmer through the shadow of my apartment.  “I will leave you by yourself, white dream,” I said.  “I am feverish: I hear the wind blowing: I will go out of doors and feel it.”我关上了衣柜，隐去了里面幽灵似的奇装异服。在晚间九点这个时辰，这些衣著在我房间的暗影里，发出了阴森森的微光。“我要让你独个儿留着，白色的梦幻，”我说。“我兴奋难耐，我听见风在劲吹，我要出门去感受一下。”It was not only the hurry of preparation that made me feverish; not only the anticipation of the great change—the new life which was to commence to-morrow: both these circumstances had their share, doubtless, in producing that restless, excited mood which hurried me forth at this late hour into the darkening grounds: but a third cause influenced my mind more than they.使我兴奋的不仅是匆匆忙忙的结婚准备，也不仅是因为对巨大的变化，明天开始的新生活所怀的希望。毫无疑问，两者都起了作用，使我兴奋不安，这么晚了还匆匆来到越来越黑的庭园。但是第三个原因对我的心理影响更大。I had at heart a strange and anxious thought.  Something had happened which I could not comprehend; no one knew of or had seen the event but myself: it had taken place the preceding night.  Mr. Rochester that night was absent from home; nor was he yet returned: business had called him to a small estate of two or three farms he possessed thirty miles off—business it was requisite he should settle in person, previous to his meditated departure from England.  I waited now his return; eager to disburthen my mind, and to seek of him the solution of the enigma that perplexed me.  Stay till he comes, reader; and, when I disclose my secret to him, you shall share the confidence.我内心深处埋藏着一种古怪而焦急的念头。这儿发生了一件我无法理解的事情，而且除了我，既无人知道，也无人见过。那是在前一天晚上发生的。罗切斯特先生出门去了，还没有回来。他因为有事上三十英里外的两三个小农庄去了——这些事务需要他在计划离开英国之前亲自去办理。此刻我等着他回来，急于卸去心头的包袱，请他解开困惑着我的谜。我要呆到他回来，读者，我一向他倾诉我的秘密，你们也就不言自明了。I sought the orchard, driven to its shelter by the wind, which all day had blown strong and full from the south, without, however, bringing a speck of rain.  Instead of subsiding as night drew on, it seemed to augment its rush and deepen its roar: the trees blew steadfastly one way, never writhing round, and scarcely tossing back their boughs once in an hour; so continuous was the strain bending their branchy heads northward—the clouds drifted from pole to pole, fast following, mass on mass: no glimpse of blue sky had been visible that July day.我朝果园走去了。风把我驱赶到了隐蔽的角落。强劲的南风刮了整整一天，却没有带来一滴雨。入夜，风势非但没有减弱，反而越来越强，咆哮声越来越响。树木被一个劲儿地往一边吹着，从不改向，一个小时里，树枝几乎一次都没有朝反方向倒去，树梢一直紧绷着往北弯着。云块从一头飘到另一头，接踵而来，层层叠叠，七月的这一天看不到一丝蓝天。It was not without a certain wild pleasure I ran before the wind, delivering my trouble of mind to the measureless air-torrent thundering through space.  Descending the laurel walk, I faced the wreck of the chestnut-tree; it stood up black and riven: the trunk, split down the centre, gasped ghastly.  The cloven halves were not broken from each other, for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below; though community of vitality was destroyed—the sap could flow no more: their great boughs on each side were dead, and next winter’s tempests would be sure to fell one or both to earth: as yet, however, they might be said to form one tree—a ruin, but an entire ruin.我被风推着往前奔跑，把心头的烦恼付诸呼啸而过、无穷无尽的气流，倒也不失为一种狂乱的喜悦。我走下月桂小径，面前是横遭洗劫的栗树，黑乎乎的已经被撕裂，却依然站立着，树干中一劈为二，可怕地张着大口。但裂开的两半并没有完全脱开，因为坚实的树基和强壮的树根使底部仍然连接着。尽管生命的整体遭到了破坏一—树汁已不再流动，每一片大树枝都已枯死，明年冬天的暴风雨一定会把裂开的一片或者两片都刮到地上，但是它们可以说合起来是一棵树一—虽已倒地，却完整无缺。“You did right to hold fast to each other,” I said: as if the monster-splinters were living things, and could hear me.  “I think, scathed as you look, and charred and scorched, there must be a little sense of life in you yet, rising out of that adhesion at the faithful, honest roots: you will never have green leaves more—never more see birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs; the time of pleasure and love is over with you: but you are not desolate: each of you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay.”  As I looked up at them, the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure; her disk was blood-red and half overcast; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered, dreary glance, and buried herself again instantly in the deep drift of cloud.  The wind fell, for a second, round Thornfield; but far away over wood and water, poured a wild, melancholy wail: it was sad to listen to, and I ran off again.“你们这样彼此紧贴着做得很对，”我说，仿佛裂开的大树是有生命的东西，听得见我的话。“我想，尽管你看上去遍体鳞伤，焦黑一片，但你身上一定还有细微的生命，从朴实忠诚的树根的粘合处冒出来。你们再也不会吐出绿叶——再也看不到鸟儿在枝头筑巢，唱起悠闲的歌。你们欢乐的相爱时刻已经逝去，但你们不会感到孤寂，在朽败中你们彼此都有同病相怜的伙伴。”我抬头仰望树干，只见月亮瞬间出现在树干裂缝中的那一小片天空，血红的月轮被遮去了一半。她似乎向我投来困惑、忧郁的一瞥，随后又躲进了厚厚的云层。刹那之间，桑菲尔德一带的风势减弱了。但远处的树林里和水面上，却响起了狂野凄厉的哀号，听起来叫人伤心，于是我便跑开了。Here and there I strayed through the orchard, gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn; then I employed myself in dividing the ripe from the unripe; I carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room.  Then I repaired to the library to ascertain whether the fire was lit, for, though summer, I knew on such a gloomy evening Mr. Rochester would like to see a cheerful hearth when he came in: yes, the fire had been kindled some time, and burnt well.  I placed his arm-chair by the chimney-corner: I wheeled the table near it: I let down the curtain, and had the candles brought in ready for lighting.  我漫步穿过果园，把树根周围厚厚的青草底下的苹果捡起来，随后忙着把成熟了的苹果和其他苹果分开，带回屋里，放进储藏室。接着我上图书室去看看有没有生上火炉。因为虽是夏天，但我知道，在这祥一个阴沉的夜晚，罗切斯特先生喜欢一进门就看到令人愉快的炉火。不错，火生起来已经有一会儿了，烧得很旺。我把他的安乐椅放在炉角，把桌子推近它。我放下窗帘，让人送来蜡烛，以备点灯。More restless than ever, when I had completed these arrangements I could not sit still, nor even remain in the house: a little time-piece in the room and the old clock in the hall simultaneously struck ten.这一切都安排好以后，我很有些坐立不安，甚至连屋子里也呆不住了。房间里的小钟和厅里的老钟同时敲响了十点。“How late it grows!” I said.  “I will run down to the gates: it is moonlight at intervals; I can see a good way on the road.  He may be coming now, and to meet him will save some minutes of suspense.”“这么晚了！”我自言自语地说：“我要跑下楼到大门口去。借着时隐时现的月光，我能看清楚很远的路。也许这会儿他就要来了，出去迎接他可以使我少担几分钟心。”The wind roared high in the great trees which embowered the gates; but the road as far as I could see, to the right hand and the left, was all still and solitary: save for the shadows of clouds crossing it at intervals as the moon looked out, it was but a long pale line, unvaried by one moving speck.风在遮掩着大门的巨树中呼啸着。但我眼目所及，路的左右两旁都孤寂无声，只有云的阴影不时掠过。月亮探出头来时，也不过是苍白的一长条，单调得连一个移动的斑点都没有。A puerile tear dimmed my eye while I looked—a tear of disappointment and impatience; ashamed of it, I wiped it away.  I lingered; the moon shut herself wholly within her chamber, and drew close her curtain of dense cloud: the night grew dark; rain came driving fast on the gale.我仰望天空，一滴幼稚的眼泪蒙住了眼睛，那是失望和焦急之泪。我为此感到羞涩，赶紧把它抹去，但迟迟没有举步。月亮把自己整个儿关进了闺房，并拉上了厚实的云的窗帘。夜变得黑沉沉了，大风刮来了骤雨。“I wish he would come!  I wish he would come!” I exclaimed, seized with hypochondriac foreboding.  I had expected his arrival before tea; now it was dark: what could keep him?  Had an accident happened?  The event of last night again recurred to me.  I interpreted it as a warning of disaster.  I feared my hopes were too bright to be realised; and I had enjoyed so much bliss lately that I imagined my fortune had passed its meridian, and must now decline.“但愿他会来！但愿他会来！”我大嚷着，心里产生了要发作疑病症的预感。茶点之前我就盼望他到了，而此刻天已经全黑。什么事儿耽搁了他呢？难道出了事故？我不由得想起了昨晚的一幕，我把它理解成是灾祸的预兆。我担心自己的希望过于光明而不可能实现，最近我享了那么多福，自己不免想到，我的运气已过了顶点，如今必然要走下坡路了。“Well, I cannot return to the house,” I thought; “I cannot sit by the fireside, while he is abroad in inclement weather: better tire my limbs than strain my heart; I will go forward and meet him.”“是呀，我不能回屋去，”我思忖道，“我不能安坐在火炉边，而他却风风雨雨在外面闯荡。与其忧心如焚，不如脚头劳累一些，我要走上前去迎接他。”I set out; I walked fast, but not far: ere I had measured a quarter of a mile, I heard the tramp of hoofs; a horseman came on, full gallop; a dog ran by his side.  Away with evil presentiment!  It was he: here he was, mounted on Mesrour, followed by Pilot.  He saw me; for the moon had opened a blue field in the sky, and rode in it watery bright: he took his hat off, and waved it round his head.  I now ran to meet him.我出发了，走得很快，但并不很远。还没到四分之一英里，我便听见了一阵马蹄声。一位骑手疾驰而来，旁边窜着一条狗。不祥的预感一扫而光！这正是他，骑着梅斯罗来了，身后跟着派洛特。他看见了我，因为月亮在空中开辟了一条蓝色的光带，在光带中飘移，晶莹透亮。他摘下帽子，在头顶挥动，我迎着他跑上去。“There!” he exclaimed, as he stretched out his hand and bent from the saddle: “You can’t do without me, that is evident.  Step on my boot-toe; give me both hands: mount!”“瞧！”他大声叫道，一面伸出双手，从马鞍上弯下腰来。“显然你少了我不行，踩在我靴子尖上，把两只手都给我，上！”I obeyed: joy made me agile: I sprang up before him.  A hearty kissing I got for a welcome, and some boastful triumph, which I swallowed as well as I could.  He checked himself in his exultation to demand, “But is there anything the matter, Janet, that you come to meet me at such an hour?  Is there anything wrong?”我照他说的做了。心里一高兴身子也灵活了，我跳上马坐到他前面。他使劲吻我，表示对我的欢迎，随后又自鸣得意地吹了一番，我尽量一股脑儿都相信。得意之中他刹住话题问我：“怎么回事？珍妮特，你居然这个时候来接我？出了什么事了？”“No, but I thought you would never come.  I could not bear to wait in the house for you, especially with this rain and wind.”“没有。不过我以为你永远不会回来了。我实在耐不住等在屋子里，尤其是雨下得那么大，风刮得那么紧。”“Rain and wind, indeed!  Yes, you are dripping like a mermaid; pull my cloak round you: but I think you are feverish, Jane: both your cheek and hand are burning hot.  I ask again, is there anything the matter?”“确实是雨大风狂！是呀，看你像美人鱼一样滴着水。把我的斗篷拉过去盖住你。不过我想你有些发烧，简。你的脸颊和手都烫得厉害。我再问一句，出了什么事了吗？”“Nothing now; I am neither afraid nor unhappy.”“现在没有。我既不害怕，也不难受。”“Then you have been both?”“那样的话，你刚才害怕过，难受过？”“Rather: but I’ll tell you all about it by-and-bye, sir; and I daresay you will only laugh at me for my pains.”“有一些，不过慢慢地我会告诉你的，先生。我猜想你只会讥笑我自寻烦恼。”“I’ll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past; till then I dare not: my prize is not certain.  This is you, who have been as slippery as an eel this last month, and as thorny as a briar-rose?  I could not lay a finger anywhere but I was pricked; and now I seem to have gathered up a stray lamb in my arms.  

You wandered out of the fold to seek your shepherd, did you, Jane?”“明天一过，我要痛痛快快地笑你，但现在可不敢。我的宝贝还不一定到手。上个月你就像鳗鱼一样滑溜，像野蔷薇一样多刺，什么地方手指一碰就挨了刺。现在我好像己经把迷途的羔羊揣在怀里了，


你溜出了羊栏来找你的牧羊人啦，简？”“I wanted you: but don’t boast.  Here we are at Thornfield: now let me get down.”“我需要你。可是别吹了，我们已经到了桑菲尔德，让我下去吧。”He landed me on the pavement.  As John took his horse, and he followed me into the hall, he told me to make haste and put something dry on, and then return to him in the library; and he stopped me, as I made for the staircase, to extort a promise that I would not be long: nor was I long; in five minutes I rejoined him.  I found him at supper.他把我放到了石子路上。约翰牵走了马。他跟在我后头进了大厅，告诉我赶快换上干衣服，然后回到图书室他身边。我正向楼梯走去，他截住我，硬要我答应不要久待。我确实没有呆多久。五分钟后便回到了他身边，这时他正在用晚饭。“Take a seat and bear me company, Jane: please God, it is the last meal but one you will eat at Thornfield Hall for a long time.”“坐下来陪我，简，要是上帝保佑，在很长一段时间内，这是你在桑菲尔德府吃的倒数第二顿饭了。”I sat down near him, but told him I could not eat.  我在他旁边坐下，但告诉他我吃不下了。“Is it because you have the prospect of a journey before you, Jane?  Is it the thoughts of going to London that takes away your appetite?”“难道是因为牵挂着面前的旅程，简？是不是因为想着去伦敦便弄得没有胃口了？”“I cannot see my prospects clearly to-night, sir; and I hardly know what thoughts I have in my head.  Everything in life seems unreal.”“今晚我看不清自己的前景，先生。而且我几乎不知道脑子里想些什么？生活中的一切似乎都是虚幻的。”“Except me: I am substantial enough—touch me.”“除了我。我是够实实在在的了——碰我一下吧。”“You, sir, are the most phantom-like of all: you are a mere dream.”“你，先生，是最像幻影了，你只不过是个梦。”He held out his hand, laughing.  “Is that a dream?” said he, placing it close to my eyes.  He had a rounded, muscular, and vigorous hand, as well as a long, strong arm.他伸出手，大笑起来。“这也是个梦？”他把手放到紧挨我眼睛的地方说。他的手肌肉发达、强劲有力、十分匀称，他的胳膊又长又壮实。“Yes; though I touch it, it is a dream,” said I, as I put it down from before my face.  “Sir, have you finished supper?”“不错，我碰了它，但它是个梦，”我把他的手从面前按下说。“先生，你用完晚饭了吗？”“Yes, Jane.”“吃好了，简。”I rang the bell and ordered away the tray.  When we were again alone, I stirred the fire, and then took a low seat at my master’s knee.我打了铃，吩咐把托盘拿走。再次只剩下我们两人时，我拨了拔火，在我主人膝边找了个低矮的位置坐下。“It is near midnight,” I said.“将近半夜了，”我说。“Yes: but remember, Jane, you promised to wake with me the night before my wedding.”“不错，但记住，简，你答应过，在婚礼前夜同我一起守夜。”“I did; and I will keep my promise, for an hour or two at least: I have no wish to go to bed.”“我的确答应过，而且我会信守诺言，至少陪你一两个小时，我不想睡觉。”“Are all your arrangements complete?”“你都收拾好了吗，”“All, sir.”“都好了，先生。”“And on my part likewise,” he returned, “I have settled everything; and we shall leave Thornfield to-morrow, within half-an-hour after our return from church.”“我也好了，”他说。“我什么都处理好了，明天从教堂里一回来，半小时之内我们就离开桑菲尔德。”“Very well, sir.”“很好，先生。”“With what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word—‘very well,’ Jane!  What a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek! and how strangely your eyes glitter!  Are you well?”“你说‘很好’两个字的时候，笑得真有些反常呀，简！你双颊上的一小块多亮！你眼睛里的闪光多怪呀！你身体好吗？”“I believe I am.”“我相信很好。”“Believe!  What is the matter?  Tell me what you feel.”“相信！怎么回事？—一告诉我你觉得怎么样。”“I could not, sir: no words could tell you what I feel.  I wish this present hour would never end: who knows with what fate the next may come charged?”“我没法告诉你，先生。我的感觉不是语言所能表达的。我真希望时光永远停留在此时此刻，谁知道下一个钟头的命运会怎样呢？”“This is hypochondria, Jane.  You have been over-excited, or over-fatigued.”“这是一种多疑症，简。这阵子你太激动了，要不太劳累了？”“Do you, sir, feel calm and happy?”“你觉得平静而快乐吗，先生？”“Calm?—no: but happy—to the heart’s core.”“平静？—一不，但很快乐，—一乐到了心窝里。”I looked up at him to read the signs of bliss in his face: it was ardent and flushed.我抬头望着他，想看看他脸上幸福的表情，那是一张热情勃发、涨得通红的脸。“Give me your confidence, Jane,” he said: “relieve your mind of any weight that oppresses it, by imparting it to me.  What do you fear?—that I shall not prove a good husband?”“把心里话告诉我吧，简，”他说，“同我说说你内心的重压，宽宽心吧。你担心什么呢？——怕我不是个好丈夫？”“It is the idea farthest from my thoughts.”“这与我的想法风马牛不相干。”“Are you apprehensive of the new sphere you are about to enter?—of the new life into which you are passing?”“你对自己要踏入的新天地感到担忧？也就是你就要过的新生活？”“No.”“不。”“You puzzle me, Jane: your look and tone of sorrowful audacity perplex and pain me.  I want an explanation.”“你可把我弄糊涂了，简。你那忧伤而大胆的目光和语气，使我困惑，也使我痛苦。我要求你解释一下。”“Then, sir, listen.  You were from home last night?”“那么，先生—一听着。昨夜你不是不在家吗？”“I was: I know that; and you hinted a while ago at something which had happened in my absence:—nothing, probably, of consequence; but, in short, it has disturbed you.  Let me hear it.  Mrs. Fairfax has said something, perhaps? or you have overheard the servants talk?—your sensitive self-respect has been wounded?”“是呀，这你知道。刚才你还提起我不在的时候发生的事情——很可能无关紧要，但总而言之扰乱了你的心境。讲给我听听吧。也许是费尔法克斯太太说了什么？要不你听到佣人说闲话了？你那敏感的自尊心受到了伤害？”“No, sir.”  It struck twelve—I waited till the time-piece had concluded its silver chime, and the clock its hoarse, vibrating stroke, and then I proceeded.“没有，先生。”这时正敲十二点—一我等到小钟响过清脆和谐的声音，大钟停止沙哑的震荡才继续说下去。“All day yesterday I was very busy, and very happy in my ceaseless bustle; for I am not, as you seem to think, troubled by any haunting fears about the new sphere, et cetera: I think it a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you, because I love you.  No, sir, don’t caress me now—let me talk undisturbed.  Yesterday I trusted well in Providence, and believed that events were working together for your good and mine: it was a fine day, if you recollect—the calmness of the air and sky forbade apprehensions respecting your safety or comfort on your journey.  I walked a little while on the pavement after tea, thinking of you; and I beheld you in imagination so near me, I scarcely missed your actual presence.  I thought of the life that lay before me—your life, sir—an existence more expansive and stirring than my own: as much more so as the depths of the sea to which the brook runs are than the shallows of its own strait channel.  I wondered why moralists call this world a dreary wilderness: for me it blossomed like a rose.  “昨天我忙了一整天，在无休止的忙碌中，我非常愉快。因为不像你似乎设想的那样，我并没有为新天地之类的忧虑而烦恼。我认为有希望同你一起生活是令人高兴的，因为我爱你。——不，先生，现在别来抚摸我——不要打扰我，让我说下去。昨天我笃信上苍，相信对你我来说是天助人愿。你总还记得，那是个晴朗的日子，天空那么宁静，让人毋须为你路途的平安和舒适担忧。甩完茶以后，我在石子路上走了一会，思念着你。在想象中，我看见你离我很近，几乎就在我跟前。我思忖着展现在我面前的生活——你的生活，先生——比我的更奢华，更激动人心，就像容纳了江河的大海深处，同海峡的浅滩相比，有天壤之别。我觉得奇怪，为什么道德学家称这个世界为凄凉的荒漠，对我来说，它好像盛开的玫瑰。Just at sunset, the air turned cold and the sky cloudy: I went in, Sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress, which they had just brought; and under it in the box I found your present—the veil which, in your princely extravagance, you sent for from London: resolved, I suppose, since I would not have jewels, to cheat me into accepting something as costly.  I smiled as I unfolded it, and devised how I would tease you about your aristocratic tastes, and your efforts to masque your plebeian bride in the attributes of a peeress.  I thought how I would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond I had myself prepared as a covering for my low-born head, and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune, beauty, nor connections.  I saw plainly how you would look; and heard your impetuous republican answers, and your haughty disavowal of any necessity on your part to augment your wealth, or elevate your standing, by marrying either a purse or a coronet.”就在夕阳西下的时候，气温转冷，天空布满阴云，我便走进屋去了。索菲娅叫我上楼去看看刚买的婚礼服，在婚礼服底下的盒子里，我看见了你的礼物——是你以王子般的阔绰，叫人从伦敦送来的面纱，我猜想你是因为我不愿要珠宝，而决计哄我接受某种昂贵的东西。我打开面纱，会心地笑了笑，算计着我怎样来嘲弄你的贵族派头，取笑你费尽心机要给你的平民新娘戴上贵族的假面。我设想自己如何把那块早已准备好遮盖自己出身卑微的脑袋，没有绣花的花边方丝巾拿下来，问问你，对一个既无法给她的丈夫提供财富、美色，也无法给他带来社会关系的女人，是不是够好的了。我清清楚楚地看到了你的表情。听到了你激烈而开明的回答；听到你高傲地否认有必要仰仗同钱袋与桂冠结亲，来增加自己的财富，或者提高自己的地位。”“How well you read me, you witch!” interposed Mr. Rochester: “but what did you find in the veil besides its embroidery?  Did you find poison, or a dagger, that you look so mournful now?”“你把我看得真透，你这女巫！”罗切斯特先生插嘴道，“但除了刺绣之外，你还在面纱里发现了什么，你是见到了毒药，还是匕首，弄得现在这么神色悲哀？”“No, no, sir; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric, I found nothing save Fairfax Rochester’s pride; and that did not scare me, because I am used to the sight of the demon.  But, sir, as it grew dark, the wind rose: it blew yesterday evening, not as it blows now—wild and high—but ‘with a sullen, moaning sound’ far more eerie.  I wished you were at home.  I came into this room, and the sight of the empty chair and fireless hearth chilled me.  For some time after I went to bed, I could not sleep—a sense of anxious excitement distressed me.  The gale still rising, seemed to my ear to muffle a mournful under-sound; whether in the house or abroad I could not at first tell, but it recurred, doubtful yet doleful at every lull; at last I made out it must be some dog howling at a distance.  I was glad when it ceased.  On sleeping, I continued in dreams the idea of a dark and gusty night.  I continued also the wish to be with you, and experienced a strange, regretful consciousness of some barrier dividing us.  During all my first sleep, I was following the windings of an unknown road; total obscurity environed me; rain pelted me; I was burdened with the charge of a little child: a very small creature, too young and feeble to walk, and which shivered in my cold arms, and wailed piteously in my ear.  I thought, sir, that you were on the road a long way before me; and I strained every nerve to overtake you, and made effort on effort to utter your name and entreat you to stop—but my movements were fettered, and my voice still died away inarticulate; while you, I felt, withdrew farther and farther every moment.”“没有，没有，先生。除了织品的精致和华丽，以及费尔法克斯．罗切斯特的傲慢，我什么也没有看到。他的傲慢可吓不倒我，因为我己见惯了魔鬼。可是，先生，天越来越黑，风也越来越大了。昨天的风不像现在的这样刮得强劲肆虐，而是响着“沉闷的低吟声，，显得分外古怪。我真希望你还在家里。我走进这个房间，一见到空空荡荡的椅子和没有生火的炉子，心便凉了半截。上床以后，我因为激动不安、忧心忡忡而久久不能入睡。风势仍在增强，在我听来，它似乎裹夹着一阵低声的哀鸣。这声音来自屋内还是户外，起初我无法辨认，但后来重又响了起来，每次间歇听上去模糊而悲哀。最后我终于弄清楚那一定是远处的狗叫声。后来叫声停了，我非常高兴。但一睡着，又继续梦见月黑风高的夜晚，继续盼着同你在一起，并且奇怪而遗憾地意识到，某种障碍把我们隔开了。刚睡着的时候，我沿着一条弯弯曲曲的陌生的路走着，四周一片模糊，雨点打在我身上，我抱着一个孩子，不堪重负。一个小不点儿，年纪太小身体又弱，不能走路，在我冰冷的怀抱里颤抖，在我耳旁哀哀地哭泣。我想，先生，你远远地走在我前面，我使出浑身劲儿要赶上你，一次次奋力叫着你的名字，央求你停下来一—但我的行动被束缚着，我的嗓音渐渐地沉下去，变得模糊不清，而你，我觉得分分秒秒离我越来越远了。”“And these dreams weigh on your spirits now, Jane, when I am close to you?  Little nervous subject!  Forget visionary woe, and think only of real happiness!  You say you love me, Janet: yes—I will not forget that; and you cannot deny it.  Those words did not die inarticulate on your lips.  I heard them clear and soft: a thought too solemn perhaps, but sweet as music—‘I think it is a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you, Edward, because I love you.’  Do you love me, Jane?—repeat it.”“难道现在我在你跟前了，简，这些梦还使你心情沉重吗？神经质的小东西！忘掉梦幻中的灾祸，单想现实中的幸福吧！你说你爱我，珍妮特，不错——那我不会忘记，你也不能否认。这些话并没有在你嘴边模糊不清地消失。我听来既清晰而又温柔。也许这个想法过于严肃了一些，但却象音乐一样甜蜜：‘我想有希望同你生活在一起是令人愉快的，因为我爱你。’你爱我吗，简？再说一遍。”“I do, sir—I do, with my whole heart.”“我爱你，先生一—我爱你，全身心爱你。”“Well,” he said, after some minutes’ silence, “it is strange; but that sentence has penetrated my breast painfully.  Why?  I think because you said it with such an earnest, religious energy, and because your upward gaze at me now is the very sublime of faith, truth, and devotion: it is too much as if some spirit were near me.  Look wicked, Jane: as you know well how to look: coin one of your wild, shy, provoking smiles; tell me you hate me—tease me, vex me; do anything but move me: I would rather be incensed than saddened.”“行啦，”他沉默片刻后说，“真奇怪，那句话刺痛了我的胸膛。为什么呢？我想是因为你说得那么虔敬，那么富有力量，因为你抬眼看我时，目光里透出了极度的信赖、真诚和忠心。那太难受了，仿佛在我身边的是某个精灵。摆出凶相来吧，简，你很明白该怎么摆。装出任性、腼腆、挑衅的笑容来，告诉我你恨我——戏弄我，惹怒我吧，什么都行，就是别打动我。我宁愿发疯而不愿哀伤。”“I will tease you and vex you to your heart’s content, when I have finished my tale: but hear me to the end.”“等我把故事讲完，我会让你心满意足地戏弄你，惹怒你，听我讲完吧。”“I thought, Jane, you had told me all.  I thought I had found the source of your melancholy in a dream.”“我想，简，你已经全都告诉我啦，我认为我已经发现你的忧郁全因为一个梦！”I shook my head.  我摇了摇头。“What! is there more?  But I will not believe it to be anything important.  I warn you of incredulity beforehand.  Go on.”“什么！还有别的！但我不相信是什么了不起的事情。有话在先，我表示怀疑，讲下去吧。”The disquietude of his air, the somewhat apprehensive impatience of his manner, surprised me: but I proceeded.他神态不安，举止有些忧虑焦躁，我感到很惊奇，但我继续说下去了。“I dreamt another dream, sir: that Thornfield Hall was a dreary ruin, the retreat of bats and owls.  I thought that of all the stately front nothing remained but a shell-like wall, very high and very fragile-looking.  I wandered, on a moonlight night, through the grass-grown enclosure within: here I stumbled over a marble hearth, and there over a fallen fragment of cornice.  Wrapped up in a shawl, I still carried the unknown little child: I might not lay it down anywhere, however tired were my arms—however much its weight impeded my progress, I must retain it.  I heard the gallop of a horse at a distance on the road; I was sure it was you; and you were departing for many years and for a distant country.  I climbed the thin wall with frantic perilous haste, eager to catch one glimpse of you from the top: the stones rolled from under my feet, the ivy branches I grasped gave way, the child clung round my neck in terror, and almost strangled me; at last I gained the summit.  I saw you like a speck on a white track, lessening every moment.  The blast blew so strong I could not stand.  I sat down on the narrow ledge; I hushed the scared infant in my lap: you turned an angle of the road: I bent forward to take a last look; the wall crumbled; I was shaken; the child rolled from my knee, I lost my balance, fell, and woke.”“我还做了另外一个梦，先生。梦见桑菲尔德府已是一处凄凉的废墟，成了蝙蝠和猫头鹰出没的地方。我想，那气派非凡的正壁已荡然无存，只剩下了一道贝壳般的墙，看上去很高也很单簿。在一个月光如水的夜晚，我漫步穿过里面杂草丛生的围场。一会儿这里绊着了大理石火炉，一会儿那里碰到了倒地的断梁。我披着头巾，仍然抱着那个不知名的孩子。尽管我的胳膊很吃力，我却不能把它随便放下—一尽管孩子拖累着我，但我必须带着它。我听见了远处路上一匹马的奔驰声。可以肯定那是你，而你离开已经多年，去了一个遥远的国家。我疯也似地不顾危险匆匆爬上那道薄薄的墙，急于从顶上看你一眼，石头从我的脚下滚落，我抓住的枝藤松开了，那孩子恐惧地紧抱住我的脖子，几乎使我窒息。最后我爬到了墙顶。我看见你在白色的路上象一个小点点，越来越小，越来越小。风刮得那么猛，我简直站都站不住。我坐在狭窄的壁架上，使膝头这个神圣婴儿安静下来。你在路上拐了一个弯，我俯下身子去看最后一眼。墙倒塌了，我抖动了一下，孩子从我膝头滚下，我失去了平衡，跌了下来，醒过来了。”“Now, Jane, that is all.”“现在，简，讲完了吧。”“All the preface, sir; the tale is yet to come.  On waking, a gleam dazzled my eyes; I thought—Oh, it is daylight!  But I was mistaken; it was only candlelight.  Sophie, I supposed, had come in.  There was a light in the dressing-table, and the door of the closet, where, before going to bed, I had hung my wedding-dress and veil, stood open; I heard a rustling there.  I asked, ‘Sophie, what are you doing?’  No one answered; but a form emerged from the closet; it took the light, held it aloft, and surveyed the garments pendent from the portmanteau.  ‘Sophie!  Sophie!’  I again cried: and still it was silent.  I had risen up in bed, I bent forward: first surprise, then bewilderment, came over me; and then my blood crept cold through my veins.  Mr. Rochester, this was not Sophie, it was not Leah, it was not Mrs. Fairfax: it was not—no, I was sure of it, and am still—it was not even that strange woman, Grace Poole.”“序幕完了，先生，故事还没有开场呢。醒来时一道强光弄得我眼睛发花。我想——呵，那是日光！可是我搞错了，那不过是烛光。我猜想索菲娅已经进屋了。梳妆台上有一盏灯，而衣橱门大开着，睡觉前我曾把我的婚礼服和面纱放进橱里。我听见了一阵悉悉粹粹的声音。我问，‘索菲娅，你在干嘛？’没有人回答。但是一个人影从橱里出来。它端着蜡烛，举得高高的，并且仔细端详着从架子上垂下来的衣服，‘索菲娅！索菲娅！’我又叫了起来，但它依然默不作声。我已在床上坐了起来，俯身向前。我先是感到吃惊，继而迷惑不解。我血管里的血也冷了。罗切斯特先生，这不是索菲娅，不是莉娅，也不是费尔法克斯太太。它不是一—不，我当时很肯定，现在也很肯定——甚至也不是那个奇怪的女人格雷斯．普尔。”“It must have been one of them,” interrupted my master.“一定是她们中间的一个，”主人打断了我的话。“No, sir, I solemnly assure you to the contrary.  The shape standing before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts of Thornfield Hall before; the height, the contour were new to me.”“不，先生，我庄严地向你保证，跟你说的恰恰相反。站在我面前的人影，以前我从来没有在桑菲尔德府地区见过。那身高和外形对我来说都是陌生的。”“Describe it, Jane.”“描绘一下吧，简。”“It seemed, sir, a woman, tall and large, with thick and dark hair hanging long down her back.  I know not what dress she had on: it was white and straight; but whether gown, sheet, or shroud, I cannot tell.”“先生，那似乎是个女人，又高又大，背上垂着粗黑的长发，我不知道她穿了什么衣服，反正又白又整齐。但究竟是袍子，被单，还是裹尸布，我说不上来。”“Did you see her face?”“你看见她的脸了吗？”“Not at first.  But presently she took my veil from its place; she held it up, gazed at it long, and then she threw it over her own head, and turned to the mirror.  At that moment I saw the reflection of the visage and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong glass.”“起先没有。但她立刻把我的面纱从原来的地方取下来，拿起来呆呆地看了很久，随后往自己头上一盖，转身朝着镜子。这一刹那，在暗淡的鸭蛋形镜子里，我清清楚楚地看到了她面容与五官的映像。”“And how were they?”“看上去怎么样？”“Fearful and ghastly to me—oh, sir, I never saw a face like it!  It was a discoloured face—it was a savage face.  I wish I could forget the roll of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation of the lineaments!”“我觉得像鬼一样吓人——呵，先生，我从来没有见过这样的面孔！没有血色，一付凶相。但愿我忘掉那双骨碌碌转的红眼睛，那付黑乎乎五官鼓鼓的鬼相！”“Ghosts are usually pale, Jane.”“鬼魂总是苍白的，简。”“This, sir, was purple: the lips were swelled and dark; the brow furrowed: the black eyebrows widely raised over the bloodshot eyes.  Shall I tell you of what it reminded me?”“先生，它却是紫色的。嘴唇又黑又肿，额头沟壑纵横，乌黑的眉毛怒竖着，两眼充满血丝，要我告诉你我想起了什么吗？”“You may.”“可以。”“Of the foul German spectre—the Vampyre.”“想起了可恶的德国幽灵——吸血鬼。”“Ah!—what did it do?”“呵！——它干了什么啦？”“Sir, it removed my veil from its gaunt head, rent it in two parts, and flinging both on the floor, trampled on them.”“先生，它从瘦削的头上取下面纱，撕成两半，扔在地上，踩了起来。”“Afterwards?”“后来呢？”“It drew aside the window-curtain and looked out; perhaps it saw dawn approaching, for, taking the candle, it retreated to the door.  Just at my bedside, the figure stopped: the fiery eyes glared upon me—she thrust up her candle close to my face, and extinguished it under my eyes.  I was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine, and I lost consciousness: for the second time in my life—only the second time—I became insensible from terror.”“它拉开窗帘，往外张望。也许它看到已近拂晓，便拿着蜡烛朝房门退去。正好路过我床边时，鬼影停了下来。火一般的目光向我射来，她把蜡烛举起来靠近我的脸，在我眼皮底下把它吹灭了。我感到她白煞煞的脸朝我闪着光，我昏了过去。平生第二次—一只不过第二次——我吓昏了。”“Who was with you when you revived?”“你醒过来时谁跟你在一起？”“No one, sir, but the broad day.  I rose, bathed my head and face in water, drank a long draught; felt that though enfeebled I was not ill, and determined that to none but you would I impart this vision.  Now, sir, tell me who and what that woman was?”“除了大白天，先生，谁也没有。我起身用水冲了头和脸，喝了一大口水。觉得身子虽然虚弱，却并没有生病，便决定除了你，对谁都不说这恶梦的事儿。好吧，先生，告诉我这女人是谁，干什么的？”“The creature of an over-stimulated brain; that is certain.  I must be careful of you, my treasure: nerves like yours were not made for rough handling.”“无疑，那是头脑过于兴奋的产物。对你得小心翼翼，我的宝贝，象你这样的神经，生来就经不住粗暴对待的。”“Sir, depend on it, my nerves were not in fault; the thing was real: the transaction actually took place.”“先生，毫无疑问，我的神经没有毛病，那东西是真的，事情确实发生了。”“And your previous dreams, were they real too?  Is Thornfield Hall a ruin?  Am I severed from you by insuperable obstacles?  Am I leaving you without a tear—without a kiss—without a word?”“那么你以前的梦呢，都是真的吗？难道桑菲尔德府已化成一片废墟？难道你我被不可逾越的障碍隔开了？难道我离开了你，没有流一滴泪——没有吻一吻一—没有说一句话？”“Not yet.”“不，没有。”“Am I about to do it?  Why, the day is already commenced which is to bind us indissolubly; and when we are once united, there shall be no recurrence of these mental terrors: I guarantee that.”“难道我就要这么干？一—嘿，把我们溶合在一起的日子已经到来，我们一旦结合，这种心理恐惧就再也不会发生，我敢保证。”“Mental terrors, sir!  I wish I could believe them to be only such: I wish it more now than ever; since even you cannot explain to me the mystery of that awful visitant.”“心理恐惧！但愿我能相信不过如此而已！而既然连你都无法解释可怕的来访者之谜，现在我更希望只是心理恐惧了。”“And since I cannot do it, Jane, it must have been unreal.”“既然我无法解释，简，那就一定不会是真的。”“But, sir, when I said so to myself on rising this morning, and when I looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the cheerful aspect of each familiar object in full daylight, there—on the carpet—I saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis,—the veil, torn from top to bottom in two halves!”“不过，先生，我今天早晨起来，这么自言自语说着，在房间里东张西望，想从光天化日下每件眼熟的东西悦目的外表上，找到点勇气和慰籍——瞧，就在地毯上—一我看到了一件东西，完全否定了我原来的设想——那块从上到下被撕成两半的面纱！”I felt Mr. Rochester start and shudder; he hastily flung his arms round me.  “Thank God!” he exclaimed, “that if anything malignant did come near you last night, it was only the veil that was harmed.  Oh, to think what might have happened!”我觉得罗切斯特先生大吃一惊，打了个寒颤，急急忙忙搂住我脖子“谢天谢地！”他嚷道，“幸好昨晚你所遇到的险情，不过就是毁了面纱——哎呀，只要想一想还会出什么别的事呢？”He drew his breath short, and strained me so close to him, I could scarcely pant.  After some minutes’ silence, he continued, cheerily—他喘着粗气，紧紧地搂住我，差点让我透不过气来。沉默片刻之后，他兴致十足地说下去：“Now, Janet, I’ll explain to you all about it.  It was half dream, half reality.  A woman did, I doubt not, enter your room: and that woman was—must have been—Grace Poole.  You call her a strange being yourself: from all you know, you have reason so to call her—what did she do to me? what to Mason?  In a state between sleeping and waking, you noticed her entrance and her actions; but feverish, almost delirious as you were, you ascribed to her a goblin appearance different from her own: the long dishevelled hair, the swelled black face, the exaggerated stature, were figments of imagination; results of nightmare: the spiteful tearing of the veil was real: and it is like her.  I see you would ask why I keep such a woman in my house: when we have been married a year and a day, I will tell you; but not now.  
Are you satisfied, Jane?  Do you accept my solution of the mystery?”“这一半是梦，一半是真。我并不怀疑确实有个女人进了你房间，那女人就是一—准是—一格雷斯．普尔。你自己把她叫作怪人，就你所知，你有理由这么叫她—一瞧她怎么对待我的？怎么对待梅森？在似睡非睡的状态下，你注意到她进了房间，看到了她的行动，但由于你兴奋得几乎发狂，你把她当成了不同于她本来面貌的鬼相：散乱的长发、黑黑的肿脸、夸大了的身材是你的臆想，恶梦的产物。恶狠狠撕毁面纱倒是真的，很象她干的事。我明白你会问，干嘛在屋里养着这样一个女人。等我们结婚一周年时，我会告诉你，而不是现在。







你满意了吗，简？你同意对这个谜的解释吗？”I reflected, and in truth it appeared to me the only possible one: satisfied I was not, but to please him I endeavoured to appear so—relieved, I certainly did feel; so I answered him with a contented smile.  And now, as it was long past one, I prepared to leave him.我想了一想，对我来说实在也只能这么解释了，说满意那倒未必，但为了使他高兴，我尽力装出这付样子来——说感到宽慰却是真的，于是我对他报之以满意的微笑。这时早过了一点钟，我准备向他告辞了。“Does not Sophie sleep with Adèle in the nursery?” he asked, as I lit my candle.“索菲娅不是同阿黛勒一起睡在育儿室吗？”我点起蜡烛时他问。“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“And there is room enough in Adèle’s little bed for you.  You must share it with her to-night, Jane: it is no wonder that the incident you have related should make you nervous, and I would rather you did not sleep alone: promise me to go to the nursery.”“阿黛勒的小床还能睡得下你的，今晚得跟她一起睡，简。你说的事情会使你神经紧张，那也毫不奇怪。我倒情愿你不要单独睡，答应我到育儿室去。”“I shall be very glad to do so, sir.”“我很乐意这样做，先生。”“And fasten the door securely on the inside.  Wake Sophie when you go upstairs, under pretence of requesting her to rouse you in good time to-morrow; for you must be dressed and have finished breakfast before eight.  And now, no more sombre thoughts: chase dull care away, Janet.  Don’t you hear to what soft whispers the wind has fallen? and there is no more beating of rain against the window-panes: look here” (he lifted up the curtain)—“it is a lovely night!”“从里面把门拴牢。上楼的时候把索菲娅叫醒，就说请她明天及时把你叫醒，因为你得在八点前穿好衣服，吃好早饭。现在别再那么忧心忡忡了，抛开沉重的烦恼，珍妮特。你难道没有听见轻风的细语？雨点不再敲打窗户，瞧这儿——（他撩起窗帘）多么可爱的夜晚！”It was.  Half heaven was pure and stainless: the clouds, now trooping before the wind, which had shifted to the west, were filing off eastward in long, silvered columns.  The moon shone peacefully.确实如此。半个天空都明净如水。此刻，风已改由西面吹来，轻云在风前疾驰，朝东排列成长长的银色园柱，月亮洒下了宁静的光辉。“Well,” said Mr. Rochester, gazing inquiringly into my eyes, “how is my Janet now?”“好吧，”罗切斯特先生说，一边带着探询的目光窥视我。“这会儿我的珍妮特怎么样了？”“The night is serene, sir; and so am I.”“夜晚非常平静，先生，我也一样。”“And you will not dream of separation and sorrow to-night; but of happy love and blissful union.”“明天除了欢乐的爱和幸福的结合，你再也不会梦见分离和悲伤了。”This prediction was but half fulfilled: I did not indeed dream of sorrow, but as little did I dream of joy; for I never slept at all.  With little Adèle in my arms, I watched the slumber of childhood—so tranquil, so passionless, so innocent—and waited for the coming day: all my life was awake and astir in my frame: and as soon as the sun rose I rose too.  I remember Adèle clung to me as I left her: I remember I kissed her as I loosened her little hands from my neck; and I cried over her with strange emotion, and quitted her because I feared my sobs would break her still sound repose.  She seemed the emblem of my past life; and here I was now to array myself to meet, the dread, but adored, type of my unknown future day.这一预见只实现了一半。我的确没有梦见忧伤，但也没有梦见欢乐，因为我根本就没有睡着。我搂着阿黛勒，瞧着孩子沉沉睡去一—那么平静，那么安宁，那么天真——等待着来日，我的整个生命苏醒了，在我躯体内躁动着。太阳一出，我便起来了，我记得离开阿黛勒时她紧紧搂住我，我记得把她的小手从我脖子上松开的时候，我吻了吻她。我怀着一种莫名的情感对着她哭了起来，赶紧离开了她，生怕哭泣声会惊动她的酣睡。她似乎就是我往昔生活的标志，而他，我此刻梳装打扮前去会面的，他是既可怕而又亲切、却一无所知的未来的标志。CHAPTER XXVI第二十六章Sophie came at seven to dress me: she was very long indeed in accomplishing her task; so long that Mr. Rochester, grown, I suppose, impatient of my delay, sent up to ask why I did not come.  She was just fastening my veil (the plain square of blond after all) to my hair with a brooch; I hurried from under her hands as soon as I could.索菲娅七点钟来替我打扮，确实费了好久才大功告成。那么久，我想罗切斯特先生对我的拖延有些不耐烦了，派人来问，我为什么还没有到。索菲娅正用一枚饰针把面纱（毕竟只是一块淡色的普通方巾）系到我头发上，一待完毕，我便急急忙忙从她手下钻了出去。“Stop!” she cried in French.  “Look at yourself in the mirror: you have not taken one peep.”“慢着！”她用法语叫道。“往镜子里瞧一瞧你自己，你连一眼都还没看呢。”So I turned at the door: I saw a robed and veiled figure, so unlike my usual self that it seemed almost the image of a stranger.  “Jane!” called a voice, and I hastened down.  I was received at the foot of the stairs by Mr. Rochester.于是我在门边转过身来，看到了一个穿了袍子，戴了面纱的人，一点都不像我往常的样子，就仿佛是一位陌生人的影像。“简！”一个声音嚷道，我赶紧走下楼去。罗切斯特先生在楼梯脚下迎着我。“Lingerer!” he said, “my brain is on fire with impatience, and you tarry so long!”“磨磨蹭蹭的家伙，”他说，“我的脑袋急得直冒火星、你太拖拉了！”He took me into the dining-room, surveyed me keenly all over, pronounced me “fair as a lily, and not only the pride of his life, but the desire of his eyes,” and then telling me he would give me but ten minutes to eat some breakfast, he rang the bell.  One of his lately hired servants, a footman, answered it.他带我进了餐室，急切地把我从头到脚打量了一遍，声称我“像百合花那么美丽，不仅是他生活中的骄傲，而且也让他大饱眼福。”随后他告诉我只给我十分钟吃早饭，并按了按铃。他新近雇用的一个仆人，一位管家应召而来。“Is John getting the carriage ready?”“约翰把马车准备好了吗？”“Yes, sir.”“好了，先生。”“Is the luggage brought down?”“行李拿下去了吗？”“They are bringing it down, sir.”“他们现在正往下拿呢，先生。”“Go you to the church: see if Mr. Wood (the clergyman) and the clerk are there: return and tell me.”“上教堂去一下，看看沃德先生（牧师）和执事在不在那里。回来告诉我。”The church, as the reader knows, was but just beyond the gates; the footman soon returned.读者知道，大门那边就是教堂，所以管家很快就回来了。“Mr. Wood is in the vestry, sir, putting on his surplice.”“沃德先生在法衣室里，先生，正忙着穿法衣呢。”“And the carriage?”“马车呢？”“The horses are harnessing.”“马匹正在上挽具。”“We shall not want it to go to church; but it must be ready the moment we return: all the boxes and luggage arranged and strapped on, and the coachman in his seat.”“我们上教堂不用马车，但回来时得准备停当。所有的箱子和行李都要装好捆好，车夫要在自己位置上坐好。”“Yes, sir.”“是，先生。”“Jane, are you ready?”“简，你准备好了吗？”I rose.  There were no groomsmen, no bridesmaids, no relatives to wait for or marshal: none but Mr. Rochester and I.  Mrs. Fairfax stood in the hall as we passed.   I would fain have spoken to her, but my hand was held by a grasp of iron: I was hurried along by a stride I could hardly follow; and to look at Mr. Rochester’s face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose.  I wonder what other bridegroom ever looked as he did—so bent up to a purpose, so grimly resolute: or who, under such steadfast brows, ever revealed such flaming and flashing eyes.我站了起来，没有男傧相和女傧相，也没有亲戚等候或引领。除了罗切斯特先生和我，没有别人。我们经过大厅时，费尔法克斯太太站在那里。我本想同她说话，但我的手被铁钳似地捏住了，让我几乎跟不住的脚步把我匆匆推向前去。一看罗切斯特先生的脸我就觉得，不管什么原因，再拖一秒钟他都不能忍耐了。我不知道其他新郎看上去是不是像他这付样子——那么专注于一个目的，那么毅然决然；或者有谁在那对稳重的眉毛下，露出过那么火辣辣，光闪闪的眼睛。I know not whether the day was fair or foul; in descending the drive, I gazed neither on sky nor earth: my heart was with my eyes; and both seemed migrated into Mr. Rochester’s frame.  I wanted to see the invisible thing on which, as we went along, he appeared to fasten a glance fierce and fell.  I wanted to feel the thoughts whose force he seemed breasting and resisting.我不知道那天天气是好还是不好，走下车道时，我既没观天也没看地，我的心灵与眼目都集中在罗切斯特先生身上。我边走边要看看他好像恶狠狠盯着的无形东西，要感受那些他似乎在对抗和抵御的念头。At the churchyard wicket he stopped: he discovered I was quite out of breath.  “Am I cruel in my love?” he said.  “Delay an instant: lean on me, Jane.”我们在教堂院子边门停了下来，他发现我喘不过气来了。“我爱得有点残酷吗？”他问。“歇一会儿，靠着我，简。”And now I can recall the picture of the grey old house of God rising calm before me, of a rook wheeling round the steeple, of a ruddy morning sky beyond.  I remember something, too, of the green grave-mounds; and I have not forgotten, either, two figures of strangers straying amongst the low hillocks and reading the mementoes graven on the few mossy head-stones.  I noticed them, because, as they saw us, they passed round to the back of the church; and I doubted not they were going to enter by the side-aisle door and witness the ceremony.  By Mr. Rochester they were not observed; he was earnestly looking at my face from which the blood had, I daresay, momentarily fled: for I felt my forehead dewy, and my cheeks and lips cold.  When I rallied, which I soon did, he walked gently with me up the path to the porch.如今，我能回忆起当时的情景：灰色的老教堂宁静地耸立在我面前；一只白嘴鸦在教堂尖顶盘旋；远处的晨空通红通红。我还隐约记得绿色的坟墩；也并没有忘记两个陌生的人影，在低矮的小丘之间徘徊，—边读着刻在几块长满青苔的墓石上的铭文。这两个人引起了我的注意，因为一见到我们，他们便转到教堂背后去了。我相信他们要从侧廊的门进去，观看婚礼仪式。罗切斯特先生并没有注意到这两个人，他热切地瞧着我的脸，我想我的脸一时毫无血色，因为我觉得我额头汗涔涔，两颊和嘴唇冰凉。但我不久便定下神来，同他沿着小径，缓步走向门廊。We entered the quiet and humble temple; the priest waited in his white surplice at the lowly altar, the clerk beside him.  All was still: two shadows only moved in a remote corner.  My conjecture had been correct: the strangers had slipped in before us, and they now stood by the vault of the Rochesters, their backs towards us, viewing through the rails the old time-stained marble tomb, where a kneeling angel guarded the remains of Damer de Rochester, slain at Marston Moor in the time of the civil wars, and of Elizabeth, his wife.我们进了幽静而朴实的教堂，牧师身穿白色的法衣，在低矮的圣坛等候，旁边站着执事。一切都十分平静，那两个影子在远远的角落里走动。我的猜测没有错，这两个陌生人在我们之前溜了进来，此刻背朝着我们，站立在罗切斯特家族的墓穴旁边，透过栅栏，瞧着带有时间印迹的古老大理石坟墓，这里一位下跪的天使守卫着内战中死于马斯顿荒原的戴默尔．德．罗切斯特的遗骸和他的妻子伊丽莎白。Our place was taken at the communion rails.  Hearing a cautious step behind me, I glanced over my shoulder: one of the strangers—a gentleman, evidently—was advancing up the chancel.  The service began.  The explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone through; and then the clergyman came a step further forward, and, bending slightly towards Mr. Rochester, went on.我们在圣坛栏杆前站好。我听见身后响起了小心翼翼的脚步声，便回头看了一眼，只见陌生人中的一位——显然是位绅士——正走向圣坛。仪式开始了，牧师对婚姻的目的作了解释，随后往前走了一步，向罗切斯特先生微微欠了欠身子，又继续了。“I require and charge you both (as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment, when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed), that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not lawfully be joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it; for be ye well assured that so many as are coupled together otherwise than God’s Word doth allow, are not joined together by God, neither is their matrimony lawful.”“我要求并告诫你们两人（因为在可怕的最后审判日，所有人内心的秘密都要袒露无遗时，你们也将作出回答），如果你们中的一位知道有什么障碍使你们不能合法地联姻，那就现在供认吧，因为你们要确信，凡是众多没有得到上帝允许而结合的人，都不是上帝结成的夫妇，他们的婚姻是非法的。”He paused, as the custom is.  When is the pause after that sentence ever broken by reply?  Not, perhaps, once in a hundred years.  And the clergyman, who had not lifted his eyes from his book, and had held his breath but for a moment, was proceeding: his hand was already stretched towards Mr. Rochester, as his lips unclosed to ask, “Wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife?”—when a distinct and near voice said—他按照习惯顿了一下，那句话之后的停顿，什么时候曾被回答所打破呢？不，也许一百年才有一次。所以牧师依然盯着书，并没有抬眼，静默片刻之后又说了下去，他的手已伸向罗切斯特先生，一边张嘴问道，“你愿意娶这个女人为结发妻子吗？”就在这当儿，近处一个清晰的声音响了起来：“The marriage cannot go on: I declare the existence of an impediment.”“婚礼不能继续下去了，我宣布存在着一个障碍。”The clergyman looked up at the speaker and stood mute; the clerk did the same; Mr. Rochester moved slightly, as if an earthquake had rolled under his feet: taking a firmer footing, and not turning his head or eyes, he said, “Proceed.”牧师抬头看了一下说话人，默默地站在那里，执事也一样，罗切斯特先生仿佛觉得地震滚过他脚下，稍稍移动了一下，随之便站稳了脚跟，既没有回头，也没有抬眼，便说，“继续下去。”Profound silence fell when he had uttered that word, with deep but low intonation.  Presently Mr. Wood said—他用深沉的语调说这句话后，全场一片寂静。沃德先生立即说：“I cannot proceed without some investigation into what has been asserted, and evidence of its truth or falsehood.”“不先对刚才宣布的事调查一下，证明它是真是假，我是无法继续的。”“The ceremony is quite broken off,” subjoined the voice behind us.  “I am in a condition to prove my allegation: an insuperable impediment to this marriage exists.”“婚礼中止了，”我们背后的嗓音补充道。“我能够证实刚才的断言，这桩婚事存在着难以克服的障碍。”Mr. Rochester heard, but heeded not: he stood stubborn and rigid, making no movement but to possess himself of my hand.  What a hot and strong grasp he had! and how like quarried marble was his pale, firm, massive front at this moment!  How his eye shone, still watchful, and yet wild beneath!罗切斯特先生听了置之不理。他顽固而僵直地站着，一动不动，但握住了我的手。他握得多紧！他的手多灼人！他那苍白、坚定的阔脸这时多么像开采下来的大理石！他的眼睛多么有光彩！表面平静警觉，底下却犹如翻江倒海！Mr. Wood seemed at a loss.  “What is the nature of the impediment?” he asked.  “Perhaps it may be got over—explained away?”沃德先生似乎不知所措，“是哪一类性质的障碍？”他问。“说不定可以排除——能够解释清楚呢？”“Hardly,” was the answer.  “I have called it insuperable, and I speak advisedly.”“几乎不可能，”那人回答，“我称它难以克服，是经过深思熟虑后才说的。”The speaker came forward and leaned on the rails.  He continued, uttering each word distinctly, calmly, steadily, but not loudly—说话人走到前面，倚在栏杆上。他往下说，每个字都说得那么清楚，那么镇定，那么稳重，但声音并不高。“It simply consists in the existence of a previous marriage.  Mr. Rochester has a wife now living.”“障碍完全在于一次以前的婚姻，罗切斯特先生有一个妻子还活着。”My nerves vibrated to those low-spoken words as they had never vibrated to thunder—my blood felt their subtle violence as it had never felt frost or fire; but I was collected, and in no danger of swooning.  I looked at Mr. Rochester: I made him look at me.  His whole face was colourless rock: his eye was both spark and flint.  He disavowed nothing: he seemed as if he would defy all things.  Without speaking, without smiling, without seeming to recognise in me a human being, he only twined my waist with his arm and riveted me to his side.这几个字轻轻道来，但对我神经所引起的震动，却甚过于雷霆——对我血液的细微侵蚀远甚于风霜水火，但我又镇定下来了，没有晕倒的危险，我瞧了瞧罗切斯特先生，让他瞧着我。他的整张脸成了一块苍白的岩石。他的眼睛直冒火星，却又坚如燧石。他一点也没有否认，似乎要无视一切。他没有说话，没有微笑，也似乎没有把我看作一个人，而只是胳膊紧紧搂住我的腰，把我紧贴在他身边。“Who are you?” he asked of the intruder.“你是谁？”他问那个入侵者。“My name is Briggs, a solicitor of --- Street, London.”“我的名字叫布里格斯—一伦敦××街的一个律师。”“And you would thrust on me a wife?”“你要把一个妻子强加于我吗？”“I would remind you of your lady’s existence, sir, which the law recognises, if you do not.”“我要提醒你，你有一个太太。先生，就是你不承认，法律也是承认的。”“Favour me with an account of her—with her name, her parentage, her place of abode.”“请替我描述一下她的情况——她的名字，她的父母，她的住处。”“Certainly.”  Mr. Briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket, and read out in a sort of official, nasal voice:—“当然。”布里格斯先生镇定自若地从口袋里取出了一个文件，用一种一本正经的鼻音读了起来：“‘I affirm and can prove that on the 20th of October A.D. --- (a date of fifteen years back), Edward Fairfax Rochester, of Thornfield Hall, in the county of ---, and of Ferndean Manor, in ---shire, England, was married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason, daughter of Jonas Mason, merchant, and of Antoinetta his wife, a Creole, at --- church, Spanish Town, Jamaica.  The record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church—a copy of it is now in my possession.  Signed, Richard Mason.’”“我断言并证实，公元××年十月二十日（十五年前的一个日子），英国××郡桑菲尔德府、及××郡芬丁庄园的爱德华．费尔法克斯．罗切斯特同我的姐姐，商人乔纳斯．梅森及妻子克里奥尔人、安托万内特的女儿，伯莎．安托万内特．梅森，在牙买加的西班牙镇××教堂成婚。婚礼的记录可见于教堂的登记簿——其中一份现在我手中。里查德．梅森签字。”“That—if a genuine document—may prove I have been married, but it does not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife is still living.”“如果这份文件是真的，那也只能证明我结过婚，却不能证明里面作为我妻子而提到的女人还活着。”“She was living three months ago,” returned the lawyer.“三个月之前她还活着，”律师反驳说。“How do you know?”“你怎么知道？”“I have a witness to the fact, whose testimony even you, sir, will scarcely controvert.”“我有一位这件事情的证人，他的证词，先生，连你也难以反驳。”“Produce him—or go to hell.”“把他叫来吧——不然见鬼去。”“I will produce him first—he is on the spot.  Mr. Mason, have the goodness to step forward.”“我先把他叫来——他在场。梅森先生，请你到前面来。”Mr. Rochester, on hearing the name, set his teeth; he experienced, too, a sort of strong convulsive quiver; near to him as I was, I felt the spasmodic movement of fury or despair run through his frame.  The second stranger, who had hitherto lingered in the background, now drew near; a pale face looked over the solicitor’s shoulder—yes, it was Mason himself.  Mr. Rochester turned and glared at him.  His eye, as I have often said, was a black eye: it had now a tawny, nay, a bloody light in its gloom; and his face flushed—olive cheek and hueless forehead received a glow as from spreading, ascending heart-fire: and he stirred, lifted his strong arm—he could have struck Mason, dashed him on the church-floor, shocked by ruthless blow the breath from his body—but Mason shrank away, and cried faintly, “Good God!”  Contempt fell cool on Mr. Rochester—his passion died as if a blight had shrivelled it up: he only asked—“What have you to say?”罗切斯特先生一听这个名字便咬紧了牙齿，抽搐似地剧烈颤抖起来，我离他很近，感觉得到他周身愤怒和绝望地痉挛起来。这时候一直躲在幕后的第二个陌生人，走了过来，律师的肩头上露出了一张苍白的脸来——不错，这是梅森本人。罗切斯特先生回头瞪着他。我常说他眼睛是黑的，而此刻因为愁上心头，便有了一种黄褐色，乃至带血丝的光。他的脸涨红了——橄榄色的脸颊和没有血色的额头，也由于心火不断上升和扩大而闪闪发亮。他动了动，举起了强壮的胳膊，——完全可以痛打梅森——把他击倒在地板上——无情地把他揍得断气——但梅森退缩了一下，低声叫了起来，“天哪！”一种冷冷的蔑视在罗切斯特先生心中油然而生。就仿佛蛀虫使植物枯萎一样，他的怒气消了，只不过问了一句，





“你有什么要说的？”An inaudible reply escaped Mason’s white lips.从梅森苍白的唇间吐出了几乎听不见的回答。“The devil is in it if you cannot answer distinctly.  I again demand, what have you to say?”“要是你回答不清，那就见鬼去吧，我再次要求，你有什么要说的？”“Sir—sir,” interrupted the clergyman, “do not forget you are in a sacred place.”  Then addressing Mason, he inquired gently, “Are you aware, sir, whether or not this gentleman’s wife is still living?”“先生——先生——”牧师插话了，“别忘了你在一个神圣的地方。”随后他转向梅森，和颜悦色地说，“你知道吗，先生，这位先生的妻子是不是还活着？”“Courage,” urged the lawyer,—“speak out.”“胆子大些，”律师怂恿着，——“说出来。”“She is now living at Thornfield Hall,” said Mason, in more articulate tones: “I saw her there last April.  I am her brother.”“她现在住在桑菲尔德府，”梅森用更为清晰的声调说，“四月份我还见过她。我是她弟弟。”“At Thornfield Hall!” ejaculated the clergyman.  “Impossible!  I am an old resident in this neighbourhood, sir, and I never heard of a Mrs. Rochester at Thornfield Hall.”“在桑菲尔德府！”牧师失声叫道。“不可能！我是这一带的老住客，先生，从来没有听到桑菲尔德府有一个叫罗切斯特太太的人。”I saw a grim smile contort Mr. Rochester’s lips, and he muttered—我看见一阵狞笑扭曲了罗切斯特先生的嘴唇，他咕哝道：“No, by God!  I took care that none should hear of it—or of her under that name.”  He mused—for ten minutes he held counsel with himself: he formed his resolve, and announced it—“不——天哪！我十分小心，不让人知道有这么回事，——或者知道她叫那个名字。”他沉思起来，琢磨了十来分钟，于是打定主意宣布道：“Enough! all shall bolt out at once, like the bullet from the barrel.  Wood, close your book and take off your surplice; John Green (to the clerk), leave the church: there will be no wedding to-day.”  The man obeyed.“行啦——一切都一齐窜出来了，就象子弹出了枪膛，——沃德，合上你的书本，脱下你的法衣吧，约翰．格林（面向执事）离开教堂吧。今天不举行婚礼了。”这人照办了。Mr. Rochester continued, hardily and recklessly: “Bigamy is an ugly word!—I meant, however, to be a bigamist; but fate has out-manoeuvred me, or Providence has checked me,—perhaps the last.  I am little better than a devil at this moment; and, as my pastor there would tell me, deserve no doubt the sternest judgments of God, even to the quenchless fire and deathless worm.  Gentlemen, my plan is broken up:—what this lawyer and his client say is true: I have been married, and the woman to whom I was married lives!  You say you never heard of a Mrs. Rochester at the house up yonder, Wood; but I daresay you have many a time inclined your ear to gossip about the mysterious lunatic kept there under watch and ward.  Some have whispered to you that she is my bastard half-sister: some, my cast-off mistress.  I now inform you that she is my wife, whom I married fifteen years ago,—Bertha Mason by name; sister of this resolute personage, who is now, with his quivering limbs and white cheeks, showing you what a stout heart men may bear.  Cheer up, Dick!—never fear me!—I’d almost as soon strike a woman as you.  Bertha Mason is mad; and she came of a mad family; idiots and maniacs through three generations!  Her mother, the Creole, was both a madwoman and a drunkard!—as I found out after I had wed the daughter: for they were silent on family secrets before.  Bertha, like a dutiful child, copied her parent in both points.  I had a charming partner—pure, wise, modest: you can fancy I was a happy man.  I went through rich scenes!  Oh! my experience has been heavenly, if you only knew it!  But I owe you no further explanation.  Briggs, Wood, Mason, I invite you all to come up to the house and visit Mrs. Poole’s patient, and my wife!  You shall see what sort of a being I was cheated into espousing, and judge whether or not I had a right to break the compact, and seek sympathy with something at least human.  This girl,” he continued, looking at me, “knew no more than you, Wood, of the disgusting secret: she thought all was fair and legal and never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch, already bound to a bad, mad, and embruted partner!  Come all of you—follow!”罗切斯特先生厚着脸皮毫不在乎地说下去。“重婚是一个丑陋的字眼！——然而我有意重婚，但命运却挫败了我，或者上天制止了我—一也许是后者。此刻我并不比魔鬼好多少。就像我那位牧师会告诉我的那样，必定会受到上帝最严正的审判——甚至该受不灭的火和不死的虫的折磨。先生们，我的计划被打破了！——这位律师和他顾客所说的话是真的。我结了婚，同我结婚的女人还活着！你说你在府上那一带，从来没有听到过一位叫罗切斯特太太的人，沃德。不过我猜想有很多次你想竖起耳朵，听听关于一个神秘的疯子被看管着的流言，有人已经向你耳语，说她是我同父异母的私生姐姐，有人说她是被我抛弃的情妇，——现在我告诉你们，她是我妻子——十五年前我同她结的婚——名字叫伯莎．梅森，这位铁石心肠的人的姐姐。此刻他四肢打颤，脸色发白，向你们表示男子汉们的心是多么刚强。提起劲来，迪克？——别怕我！——我几乎宁愿揍一个女人而不揍你。伯莎．梅森是疯子，而且出身于一个疯人家庭——一连三代的白痴和疯子！她的母亲，那个克里奥人既是个疯女人，又是个酒鬼！——我是同她的女儿结婚后才发现的，因为以前他们对家庭的秘密守口如瓶。伯莎像是—个百依百顺的孩子，在这两方面承袭了她母亲。我曾有过一位迷人的伴侣——纯洁、聪明、谦逊。你可能想象我是一个幸福的男人——我经历了多么丰富的场面：呵！我的阅历真有趣，要是你们知道就好了！不过我不再进一步解释了，布里格斯、沃德、梅森一—我邀请你们都上我家去，拜访一下普尔太太的病人，我的妻子！——你们会看到我受骗上当所娶的是怎样一个人，评判一下我是不是有权撕毁协议，寻求至少是符合人性的同情。“这位姑娘，”他瞧着我往下说，“沃德，对讨厌的秘密，并不比你们知道得更多。她认为一切既公平又合法，从来没有想到自己会落入骗婚的圈套，同一个受了骗的可怜虫结亲，这个可怜虫早已跟一个恶劣、疯狂、没有人性的伴侣结合！来吧，你们都跟我来？”Still holding me fast, he left the church: the three gentlemen came after.  At the front door of the hall we found the carriage.他依然紧握着我的手，离开了教堂。三位先生跟在后面。我们发现马车停在大厅的前门口。“Take it back to the coach-house, John,” said Mr. Rochester coolly; “it will not be wanted to-day.”“把它送回马车房去，约翰，”罗切斯特先生冷冷地说，“今天不需要它了。”At our entrance, Mrs. Fairfax, Adèle, Sophie, Leah, advanced to meet and greet us.我们进门时，费尔法克斯太太、阿黛勒、索菲娅、莉娅都走上前来迎接我们。“To the right-about—every soul!” cried the master; “away with your congratulations!  Who wants them?  Not I!—they are fifteen years too late!”“统统都向后转。”主人喊道，“收起你们的祝贺吧？谁需要它呢？一一我可不要！一一它晚了十五年？”He passed on and ascended the stairs, still holding my hand, and still beckoning the gentlemen to follow him, which they did.  We mounted the first staircase, passed up the gallery, proceeded to the third storey: the low, black door, opened by Mr. Rochester’s master-key, admitted us to the tapestried room, with its great bed and its pictorial cabinet.他继续往前走，登上楼梯，一面仍紧握着我的手，一面招呼先生们跟着他，他们照办了。我们走上第一道楼梯，经过门廊，继续上了三楼。罗切斯特先生的万能钥匙打开了这扇又矮又黑的门，让我进了铺有花毯的房间，房内有一张大床和一个饰有图案的柜子。“You know this place, Mason,” said our guide; “she bit and stabbed you here.”“你知道这个地方，梅森，”我们的向导说，“她在这里咬了你，刺了你。”He lifted the hangings from the wall, uncovering the second door: this, too, he opened.  In a room without a window, there burnt a fire guarded by a high and strong fender, and a lamp suspended from the ceiling by a chain.  Grace Poole bent over the fire, apparently cooking something in a saucepan.  In the deep shade, at the farther end of the room, a figure ran backwards and forwards.  What it was, whether beast or human being, one could not, at first sight, tell: it grovelled, seemingly, on all fours; it snatched and growled like some strange wild animal: but it was covered with clothing, and a quantity of dark, grizzled hair, wild as a mane, hid its head and face.他撩起墙上的帷幔，露出了第二扇门，又把它打开。在一间没有窗户的房间里，燃着一堆火，外面围着一个又高又坚固的火炉围栏，从天花板上垂下的铁链子上悬挂着一些灯。格雷斯．普尔俯身向着火，似乎在平底锅里炒着什么东西。在房间另一头的暗影里，一个人影在前后跑动，那究竟是什么，是动物还是人，粗粗一看难以辨认。它好象四肢着地趴着，又是抓又是叫，活象某种奇异的野生动物，只不过有衣服蔽体罢了。一头黑白相间、乱如鬃毛的头发遮去了她的头和脸。“Good-morrow, Mrs. Poole!” said Mr. Rochester.  “How are you? and how is your charge to-day?”“早上好，普尔太太？”罗切斯特先生说，“你好吗？你照管的人今天怎么样？”“We’re tolerable, sir, I thank you,” replied Grace, lifting the boiling mess carefully on to the hob: “rather snappish, but not ‘rageous.”“马马虎虎，先生，谢谢你，”格雷斯一面回答，一面小心地把烧滚了的乱七八糟的东西放在炉旁架子上。“有些急躁，但没有动武。”A fierce cry seemed to give the lie to her favourable report: the clothed hyena rose up, and stood tall on its hind-feet.一阵凶恶的叫声似乎揭穿了她报喜不报忧，这条穿了衣服的野狗直起身来，高高地站立在后腿上。“Ah! sir, she sees you!” exclaimed Grace: “you’d better not stay.”“哎呀，先生，她看见了你？”格雷斯嚷道，“你还是别呆在这儿。”“Only a few moments, Grace: you must allow me a few moments.”“只呆一会儿，格雷斯。你得让我呆一会儿。”“Take care then, sir!—for God’s sake, take care!”“那么当心点，先生！看在上帝面上，当心！”The maniac bellowed: she parted her shaggy locks from her visage, and gazed wildly at her visitors.  I recognised well that purple face,—those bloated features.  Mrs. Poole advanced.这疯子咆哮着，把她乱蓬蓬的头发从脸上撩开，凶狠地盯着来访者。我完全记得那发紫的脸膛，肿胀的五言。普尔太太走上前来。“Keep out of the way,” said Mr. Rochester, thrusting her aside: “she has no knife now, I suppose, and I’m on my guard.”“走开，”罗切斯特先生说着把她推到了一边。“我想她现在手里没有刀吧？而且我防备着。”“One never knows what she has, sir: she is so cunning: it is not in mortal discretion to fathom her craft.”“谁也不知道她手里有什么，先生，她那么狡猾，人再小心也斗不过她的诡计。”“We had better leave her,” whispered Mason.“我们还是离开她吧。”梅森悄声说。“Go to the devil!” was his brother-in-law’s recommendation.“见鬼去吧！”这便是他姐夫的建议。“‘Ware!” cried Grace.  The three gentlemen retreated simultaneously.  Mr. Rochester flung me behind him: the lunatic sprang and grappled his throat viciously, and laid her teeth to his cheek: they struggled.  She was a big woman, in stature almost equalling her husband, and corpulent besides: she showed virile force in the contest—more than once she almost throttled him, athletic as he was.  He could have settled her with a well-planted blow; but he would not strike: he would only wrestle.  At last he mastered her arms; Grace Poole gave him a cord, and he pinioned them behind her: with more rope, which was at hand, he bound her to a chair.  The operation was performed amidst the fiercest yells and the most convulsive plunges.  Mr. Rochester then turned to the spectators: he looked at them with a smile both acrid and desolate.“小心！”格雷斯大喝一声。三位先生不约而同地往后退缩，罗切斯特先生把我推到他背后。疯子猛扑过来，凶恶地卡住他喉咙，往脸上就咬。他们搏斗着。她是大个子女人，腰圆膀粗，身材几乎与她丈夫不相上下。厮打时显露出男性的力量，尽管罗切斯特先生有着运动员的体质，但不止一次险些儿被她闷死。他完全可以狠狠一拳将她制服，但他不愿出手，宁愿扭斗。最后他终于按住了她的一双胳膊。格雷斯递给他一根绳子，他将她的手反绑起来，又用身边的一根绳子将她绑在一把椅子上。这一连串动作是在凶神恶煞般地叫喊和猛烈的反扑中完成的。随后罗切斯特先生转向旁观者，带着刻毒而凄楚的笑看着他们。“That is my wife,” said he.  “Such is the sole conjugal embrace I am ever to know—such are the endearments which are to solace my leisure hours!  And this is what I wished to have” (laying his hand on my shoulder): “this young girl, who stands so grave and quiet at the mouth of hell, looking collectedly at the gambols of a demon, I wanted her just as a change after that fierce ragout.  Wood and Briggs, look at the difference!  Compare these clear eyes with the red balls yonder—this face with that mask—this form with that bulk; then judge me, priest of the gospel and man of the law, and remember with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged!  Off with you now.  I must shut up my prize.”“这就是我的妻子，”他说。“这就是我平生唯一一次尝到的夫妇间拥抱的滋味一—这就是我闲暇时所能得到的爱抚与慰藉，而这是我希望拥有的（他把他的手放在我肩上）。这位年青姑娘，那么严肃，那么平静地站在地狱门口，镇定自若地观看着—个魔鬼的游戏。我要她，是希望在那道呛人的菜之后换换口味。沃德和布里格斯，瞧瞧两者何等不同！把这双明净的眼睛同那边红红的眼珠比较一下吧．一—把这张脸跟那付鬼相一—这付身材与那个庞然大物比较一下吧，然后再来审判我吧。布道的牧师和护法的律师，都请记住，你们怎么来审判我，将来也会受到怎么样的审判。现在你们走吧，我得要把我的宝贝藏起来了。”We all withdrew.  Mr. Rochester stayed a moment behind us, to give some further order to Grace Poole.  The solicitor addressed me as he descended the stair.我们都走了出来。罗切斯特先生留后一步，对格雷斯．普尔再作了交代。我们下楼时律师对我说：“You, madam,” said he, “are cleared from all blame: your uncle will be glad to hear it—if, indeed, he should be still living—when Mr. Mason returns to Madeira.”“你，小姐，”他说，“证明完全是无辜的，等梅森先生返回马德拉后，你的叔叔听说是这么回事会很高兴——真的，要是他还活着。”“My uncle!  What of him?  Do you know him?”“我的叔叔！他怎么样？你认识他吗？”“Mr. Mason does.  Mr. Eyre has been the Funchal correspondent of his house for some years.  When your uncle received your letter intimating the contemplated union between yourself and Mr. Rochester, Mr. Mason, who was staying at Madeira to recruit his health, on his way back to Jamaica, happened to be with him.  Mr. Eyre mentioned the intelligence; for he knew that my client here was acquainted with a gentleman of the name of Rochester.  Mr. Mason, astonished and distressed as you may suppose, revealed the real state of matters.  Your uncle, I am sorry to say, is now on a sick bed; from which, considering the nature of his disease—decline—and the stage it has reached, it is unlikely he will ever rise.  He could not then hasten to England himself, to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen, but he implored Mr. Mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage.  He referred him to me for assistance.  I used all despatch, and am thankful I was not too late: as you, doubtless, must be also.  Were I not morally certain that your uncle will be dead ere you reach Madeira, I would advise you to accompany Mr. Mason back; but as it is, I think you had better remain in England till you can hear further, either from or of Mr. Eyre.  Have we anything else to stay for?” he inquired of Mr. Mason.“梅森先生认识他，几年来爱先生一直与他丰沙尔的家保持通讯联系。你的叔叔接到你的信，得悉你与罗切斯特先生有意结合时，梅森先生正好也在，他是回牙买加的路上，逗留在马德拉群岛疗养的。爱先生提起了这个消息，因为他知道我的一个顾客同一位名叫罗切斯特先生的相熟。你可以想象，梅森先生既惊讶又难受，便披露了事情的真相。很遗憾，你的叔叔现在卧病在床，考虑到疾病的性质，一—肺病——以及疾病的程度，他很可能会一病不起。他不可能亲自赶到英国，把你从掉入的陷井中解救出来，但他恳求梅森先生立即采取措施，阻止这桩诈骗婚姻。他让我帮他的忙。我使用了一切公文快信，谢天谢地，总算并不太晚，无疑你也必定有同感。要不是我确信你还没赶到马德拉群岛，你的叔叔会去世，我会建议你同梅森先生结伴而行。但事情既然如此，你还是留在英国，等你接到他的信或者听到关于他的消息后再说。我们还有什么别的事需要呆着吗？”他问梅西森先生。“No, no—let us be gone,” was the anxious reply; and without waiting to take leave of Mr. Rochester, they made their exit at the hall door.  The clergyman stayed to exchange a few sentences, either of admonition or reproof, with his haughty parishioner; this duty done, he too departed.“不，没有了，—一我们走吧，”听者急不可耐地回答。他们没有等得及向罗切斯特先生告别，便从大厅门出去了。牧师呆着同他高傲的教区居民交换了几句劝导或是责备的话，尽了这番责任，也离去了。I heard him go as I stood at the half-open door of my own room, to which I had now withdrawn.  The house cleared, I shut myself in, fastened the bolt that none might intrude, and proceeded—not to weep, not to mourn, I was yet too calm for that, but—mechanically to take off the wedding dress, and replace it by the stuff gown I had worn yesterday, as I thought, for the last time.  I then sat down: I felt weak and tired.  I leaned my arms on a table, and my head dropped on them.  And now I thought: till now I had only heard, seen, moved—followed up and down where I was led or dragged—watched event rush on event, disclosure open beyond disclosure: but now, I thought.我听见他走了，这时我已回到自己的房间里，正站在半掩着的门旁边。人去楼空，我把自己关进房间，拴上门，免得别人闯进来，然后开始——不是哭泣，不是悲伤，我很镇静，不会这样，而是——机械地脱下婚礼服，换上昨天我要最后一次穿戴的呢袍。随后我坐了下来，感到浑身疲软。我用胳膊支着桌子，将头靠在手上。现在我开始思考了。在此之前，我只是听，只是看，只是动——由别人领着或拖着，跟上跟下——观看事情一件件发生，秘密一桩桩揭开。而现在，我开始思考了。The morning had been a quiet morning enough—all except the brief scene with the lunatic: the transaction in the church had not been noisy; there was no explosion of passion, no loud altercation, no dispute, no defiance or challenge, no tears, no sobs: a few words had been spoken, a calmly pronounced objection to the marriage made; some stern, short questions put by Mr. Rochester; answers, explanations given, evidence adduced; an open admission of the truth had been uttered by my master; then the living proof had been seen; the intruders were gone, and all was over.早上是够平静的一—除了与疯子交手的短暂场面，一切都平平静静。教堂里的一幕也并没有高声大气，没有暴怒，没有大声吵闹，没有争辩，没有对抗或挑衅，没有眼泪，没有哭泣。几句话一说，平静地宣布对婚姻提出异议，罗切斯特先生问了几个严厉而简短的问题，对方作了回答和解释，援引了证据，我主人公开承认了事实，随后看了活的证据。闯入者走了，一切都过去了。I was in my own room as usual—just myself, without obvious change: nothing had smitten me, or scathed me, or maimed me.  And yet where was the Jane Eyre of yesterday?—where was her life?—where were her prospects?我像往常那样呆在我的房间里一—只有我自己，没有明显的变化。我没有受到折磨，损伤或者残害，然而昨天的简•爱又在哪儿呢？—一她的生命在哪儿？——她的前程在哪儿？Jane Eyre, who had been an ardent, expectant woman—almost a bride, was a cold, solitary girl again: her life was pale; her prospects were desolate.  A Christmas frost had come at midsummer; a white December storm had whirled over June; ice glazed the ripe apples, drifts crushed the blowing roses; on hayfield and cornfield lay a frozen shroud: lanes which last night blushed full of flowers, to-day were pathless with untrodden snow; and the woods, which twelve hours since waved leafy and flagrant as groves between the tropics, now spread, waste, wild, and white as pine-forests in wintry Norway.  My hopes were all dead—struck with a subtle doom, such as, in one night, fell on all the first-born in the land of Egypt.  I looked on my cherished wishes, yesterday so blooming and glowing; they lay stark, chill, livid corpses that could never revive.  I looked at my love: that feeling which was my master’s—which he had created; it shivered in my heart, like a suffering child in a cold cradle; sickness and anguish had seized it; it could not seek Mr. Rochester’s arms—it could not derive warmth from his breast.  Oh, never more could it turn to him; for faith was blighted—confidence destroyed!  Mr. Rochester was not to me what he had been; for he was not what I had thought him.  I would not ascribe vice to him; I would not say he had betrayed me; but the attribute of stainless truth was gone from his idea, and from his presence I must go: that I perceived well.  When—how—whither, I could not yet discern; but he himself, I doubted not, would hurry me from Thornfield.  Real affection, it seemed, he could not have for me; it had been only fitful passion: that was balked; he would want me no more.  I should fear even to cross his path now: my view must be hateful to him.  Oh, how blind had been my eyes!  How weak my conduct!简•爱，她曾是一个热情洋溢、充满期待的女人——差一点做了新娘——再度成了冷漠、孤独的姑娘。她的生命很苍白，她的前程很凄凉。圣诞的霜冻在仲夏就降临；十二月的白色风暴六月里便刮得天旋地转；冰凌替成熟的苹果上了釉彩；积雪摧毁了怒放的玫瑰；干草田和玉米地里覆盖着一层冰冻的寿衣；昨夜还姹紫嫣红的小巷，今日无人踩踏的积雪已经封住了道路；十二小时之前还树叶婆娑、香气扑鼻犹如热带树丛的森林，现在已经白茫茫一片荒芜，犹如冬日挪威的松林，我的希望全都熄灭了——受到了微妙致命的一击，就像埃及的长子一夜之间所受到的一样。我观察了自己所抱的希望，昨天还是那么繁茂，那么光彩照人，现在却变得光秃秃、寒颤颤、铅灰色了——成了永远无法复活的尸体，我审视着我的爱情，我主人的那种感情——他所造成的感情，在我心里打着寒颤，象冰冷摇篮里的一个病孩，病痛已经缠身，却又难以回到罗切斯特先生的怀抱——无法从他的胸膛得到温暖。呵，永远也回不到他那儿去了，因为信念已被扼杀——信任感已被摧毁！对我来说，罗切斯特先生不是过去的他了，因为他已不像我所想象的那样。我不会把恶行加予他，我不会说他背叛了我，但是真理那种一尘不染的属性，已与他无缘了，我必须离他而去，这点我看得非常清楚，什么时侯起——怎样走——上哪儿去，我还不能明辨。但我相信他自己会急于把我从桑菲尔德撵走，他似乎已不可能对我怀有真情，而只有忽冷忽热的激情，而且受到压抑。他不再需要我了，现在我甚至竟害怕与他狭路相逢，他一见我准感到厌恶。呵，我的眼睛多瞎！我的行动多软弱！My eyes were covered and closed: eddying darkness seemed to swim round me, and reflection came in as black and confused a flow.  Self-abandoned, relaxed, and effortless, I seemed to have laid me down in the dried-up bed of a great river; I heard a flood loosened in remote mountains, and felt the torrent come: to rise I had no will, to flee I had no strength.  I lay faint, longing to be dead.  One idea only still throbbed life-like within me—a remembrance of God: it begot an unuttered prayer: these words went wandering up and down in my rayless mind, as something that should be whispered, but no energy was found to express them—我的眼晴被蒙住了，而且闭了起来。旋转的黑暗飘浮着似乎包围了我，思绪滚滚而来犹如黑色的浊流。我自暴自弃，浑身松弛，百无聊赖，仿佛躺在一条大河干枯的河床上，我听见洪水从远山奔泻而来，我感觉到激流逼近了，爬起来吧，我没有意志，逃走吧，我又没有力气。我昏昏沉沉地躺着，渴望死去。有一个念头仍像生命那样在我内心搏动——上帝的怀念，并由此而产生了无言的祈祷。这些话在我没有阳光的内心往复徘徊，仿佛某些话该悄声倾吐出来，却又无力去表达它们。“Be not far from me, for trouble is near: there is none to help.”“求你不要远离我，因为急难临近了，没有人帮助我。”It was near: and as I had lifted no petition to Heaven to avert it—as I had neither joined my hands, nor bent my knees, nor moved my lips—it came: in full heavy swing the torrent poured over me.  The whole consciousness of my life lorn, my love lost, my hope quenched, my faith death-struck, swayed full and mighty above me in one sullen mass.  That bitter hour cannot be described: in truth, “the waters came into my soul; I sank in deep mire: I felt no standing; I came into deep waters; the floods overflowed me.”急难确实近了，而我并没有请求上天消灾灭祸——我既没有合上双手，没有屈膝，也没有张嘴——急难降临了，洪流滚滚而来把我吞没。我意识到我的生活十分狐单，我的爱情己经失去，我的希望已被浇灭，我的信心受了致命的一击，这整个想法犹如—个色彩单调的块状物，在我头顶有力地大幅度摆动着。这痛苦的时刻不堪描述。真是“水灌进了我的灵魂，我陷入了深深的泥淖，觉得无处立足，坠进深渊，激流把我淹没了。”CHAPTER XXVII第二十七章Some time in the afternoon I raised my head, and looking round and seeing the western sun gilding the sign of its decline on the wall, I asked, “What am I to do?”下午某个时候，我抬起头来，向四周瞧了瞧，看见西沉的太阳正在墙上涂上金色的落日印记，我问道，“我该怎么办？”But the answer my mind gave—“Leave Thornfield at once”—was so prompt, so dread, that I stopped my ears.  I said I could not bear such words now.  “That I am not Edward Rochester’s bride is the least part of my woe,” I alleged: “that I have wakened out of most glorious dreams, and found them all void and vain, is a horror I could bear and master; but that I must leave him decidedly, instantly, entirely, is intolerable.  I cannot do it.”我心灵的回答一一“立即离开桑菲尔德”——是那么及时，又那么可怕，我立即捂住了耳朵。我说，这些话我现在可受不了。“我不当爱德华．罗切斯特先生的新娘，是我痛苦中最小的一部份，”我断言，“我从一场美梦中醒来，发现全是竹篮打水一场空，这种恐惧我既能忍受，也能克服。不过要我义无反顾地马上离他而去却让我受不了，我不能这么做。”But, then, a voice within me averred that I could do it and foretold that I should do it.  I wrestled with my own resolution: I wanted to be weak that I might avoid the awful passage of further suffering I saw laid out for me; and Conscience, turned tyrant, held Passion by the throat, told her tauntingly, she had yet but dipped her dainty foot in the slough, and swore that with that arm of iron he would thrust her down to unsounded depths of agony.但是，我内心的另一个声音却认为我能这样做，而且预言我应当这么做。我斟酌着这个决定，希望自己软弱些，以躲避已经为我铺下的可怕的痛苦道路。而良心己变成暴君，抓住激情的喉咙，嘲弄地告诉她，她那美丽的脚已经陷入了泥沼，还发誓要用铁臂把她推入深不可测的痛苦深渊。“Let me be torn away,” then I cried.  “Let another help me!”“那么把我拉走吧！”我嚷道，“让别人来帮助我！”“No; you shall tear yourself away, none shall help you: you shall yourself pluck out your right eye; yourself cut off your right hand: your heart shall be the victim, and you the priest to transfix it.”“不，你得自己挣脱，没有人帮助你。你自己得剜出你的右眼；砍下你的右手，把你的心作为祭品而且要由你这位祭司把它刺穿。I rose up suddenly, terror-struck at the solitude which so ruthless a judge haunted,—at the silence which so awful a voice filled.  My head swam as I stood erect.  I perceived that I was sickening from excitement and inanition; neither meat nor drink had passed my lips that day, for I had taken no breakfast.  And, with a strange pang, I now reflected that, long as I had been shut up here, no message had been sent to ask how I was, or to invite me to come down: not even little Adèle had tapped at the door; not even Mrs. Fairfax had sought me.  “Friends always forget those whom fortune forsakes,” I murmured, as I undrew the bolt and passed out.  I stumbled over an obstacle: my head was still dizzy, my sight was dim, and my limbs were feeble.  I could not soon recover myself.  I fell, but not on to the ground: an outstretched arm caught me.  I looked up—I was supported by Mr. Rochester, who sat in a chair across my chamber threshold.我蓦地站了起来，被如此无情的法官所铸就的孤独，被充斥着如此可怕声音的寂静吓坏了。我站直时只觉得脑袋发晕。我明白自己由于激动和缺乏营养而感到不舒服。那天我没有吃早饭，肉和饮料都没有进过嘴。带着一种莫名的痛苦，我忽然回想起来，尽管我已在这里关了很久，但没有人带口信来问问我怎么样了，或者邀请我下楼去，甚至连阿黛勒也没有来敲我的门，费尔法克斯太太也没有来找我。“朋友们总是忘记那些被命运所抛弃的人，”我咕哝着，一面拉开门闩，走了出去。我在一个什么东西上绊了一下。因为我依然头脑发晕，视觉模糊，四肢无力，所以无法立刻控制住自己。我跌倒了，但没有倒在地上，一只伸出的手抓住了我。我抬起头来。——罗切斯特先生扶着我，他坐在我房门口的一把椅子上。“You come out at last,” he said.  “Well, I have been waiting for you long, and listening: yet not one movement have I heard, nor one sob: five minutes more of that death-like hush, and I should have forced the lock like a burglar.  So you shun me?—you shut yourself up and grieve alone!  I would rather you had come and upbraided me with vehemence.  You are passionate.  I expected a scene of some kind.  I was prepared for the hot rain of tears; only I wanted them to be shed on my breast: now a senseless floor has received them, or your drenched handkerchief.  But I err: you have not wept at all!  I see a white cheek and a faded eye, but no trace of tears.  I suppose, then, your heart has been weeping blood?”“你终于出来了，”他说，“是呀，我已经等了你很久了，而且细听着，但既没有听到一点动静，也没有听到一声哭泣，再过五分钟那么死一般的沉寂，我可要像盗贼那样破门而入了。看来，你避开我？——你把自己关起来，独自伤心？我倒情愿你厉声责备我。你易动感情，因此我估计会大闹一场。我准备你热泪如雨，只不过希望它落在我胸膛上，而现在，没有知觉的地板，或是你湿透了的手帕，接受了你的眼泪。可是我错了，你根本没有哭！我看到了白白的脸颊，暗淡的眼睛，却没有泪痕。那么我猜想，你的心一定哭泣着在流血？“Well, Jane! not a word of reproach?  Nothing bitter—nothing poignant?  Nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion?  You sit quietly where I have placed you, and regard me with a weary, passive look.”“听着，简，没有一句责备的话吗？没有尖刻、辛辣的言词？没有挫伤感情或者打击热情的字眼？你静静地坐在我让你坐的地方，无精打采地看着我。“Jane, I never meant to wound you thus.  If the man who had but one little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter, that ate of his bread and drank of his cup, and lay in his bosom, had by some mistake slaughtered it at the shambles, he would not have rued his bloody blunder more than I now rue mine.  Will you ever forgive me?”“简，我决不想这么伤害你，要是某人有一头亲如女儿的母羊，吃他的面包，饮用他的杯子，躺在他怀抱里，而由于某种疏忽，在屠场里宰了它，他对血的错误的悔恨决不会超过我现在的悔恨，你能宽恕我吗？”Reader, I forgave him at the moment and on the spot.  There was such deep remorse in his eye, such true pity in his tone, such manly energy in his manner; and besides, there was such unchanged love in his whole look and mien—I forgave him all: yet not in words, not outwardly; only at my heart’s core.读者！——我当时当地就宽恕了他。他的目光隐含着那么深沉的忏悔；语调里透出这样真实的憾意，举止中富有如此男子气的活力。此外，他的整个神态和风度中流露出那么矢志不移的爱情—一我全都宽恕了他，不过没有诉诸语言，没有表露出来，而只是掩藏在心底里。“You know I am a scoundrel, Jane?” ere long he inquired wistfully—wondering, I suppose, at my continued silence and tameness, the result rather of weakness than of will.“你知道我是个恶棍吗，简？”不久他若有所思地问——我想是对我继续缄默令神而感到纳闷，我那种心情是软弱而不是意志力的表现。“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“Then tell me so roundly and sharply—don’t spare me.”“那就直截了当毫不留情地告诉我吧——别姑息我，”“I cannot: I am tired and sick.  I want some water.” “我不能，我既疲倦又不舒服。我想喝点儿水。”He heaved a sort of shuddering sigh, and taking me in his arms, carried me downstairs.  At first I did not know to what room he had borne me; all was cloudy to my glazed sight: presently I felt the reviving warmth of a fire; for, summer as it was, I had become icy cold in my chamber.  He put wine to my lips; I tasted it and revived; then I ate something he offered me, and was soon myself.  I was in the library—sitting in his chair—he was quite near.  “If I could go out of life now, without too sharp a pang, it would be well for me,” I thought; “then I should not have to make the effort of cracking my heart-strings in rending them from among Mr. Rochester’s.  I must leave him, it appears.  I do not want to leave him—I cannot leave him.”他颤抖着叹了口气，把我抱在怀里下楼去了。起初我不知道他要把我抱到哪个房间去，在我呆滞的目光中一切都朦朦胧胧。很快我觉得一团温暖的火又回到了我身上，因为虽然时令正是夏天，我在自己的房间里早已浑身冰凉。他把酒送到我嘴里，我尝了一尝，缓过了神来。随后我吃了些他拿来的东西，于是很快便恢复过来了。我在图书室里——坐在他的椅子上一—他就在我旁边。“要是我现在就毫无痛苦地结束生命，那倒是再好没有了。”我想，“那样我就不必狠心绷断自己的心弦，以中止同罗切斯特先生心灵上的联系。后来我得离开他。我不想离开他——我不能离开他。”“How are you now, Jane?”“你现在好吗，简？”“Much better, sir; I shall be well soon.”“好多了，先生。很快就会好的。”“Taste the wine again, Jane.”“再尝一下酒，简。”I obeyed him; then he put the glass on the table, stood before me, and looked at me attentively.  Suddenly he turned away, with an inarticulate exclamation, full of passionate emotion of some kind; he walked fast through the room and came back; he stooped towards me as if to kiss me; but I remembered caresses were now forbidden.  I turned my face away and put his aside.我照他的话做了。随后他把酒杯放在桌上，站到我面前，专注地看着我。突然他转过身来，充满激情含糊不清地叫了一声，快步走过房间，又折回来，朝我弯下身子，像是要吻我，但我记起现在已不允许抚爱了。我转过头去，推开了他的脸。“What!—How is this?” he exclaimed hastily.  “Oh, I know! you won’t kiss the husband of Bertha Mason?  You consider my arms filled and my embraces appropriated?”“什么？一一这是怎么回事？”他急忙嚷道。“呵，我知道！你不想吻伯莎．梅森的丈夫？你认为我的怀里已经有人，我的拥抱已被占有？”“At any rate, there is neither room nor claim for me, sir.”“无论怎么说，已没有我的份和我的容身之地了，先生。”“Why, Jane?  I will spare you the trouble of much talking; I will answer for you—Because I have a wife already, you would reply.—I guess rightly?”“为什么，简？我来免去你多费口舌的麻烦，让我替你回答——因为我已经有了—个妻子，你会回答——我猜得对吗？”“Yes.”“是的。”“If you think so, you must have a strange opinion of me; you must regard me as a plotting profligate—a base and low rake who has been simulating disinterested love in order to draw you into a snare deliberately laid, and strip you of honour and rob you of self-respect.  What do you say to that?  I see you can say nothing in the first place, you are faint still, and have enough to do to draw your breath; in the second place, you cannot yet accustom yourself to accuse and revile me, and besides, the flood-gates of tears are opened, and they would rush out if you spoke much; and you have no desire to expostulate, to upbraid, to make a scene: you are thinking how to act—talking you consider is of no use.  I know you—I am on my guard.”“要是你这样想，你准对我抱有成见了，你一定认为我是一个诡计多端的浪子——低俗下贱的恶棍，煽起没有真情的爱，把你拉进预先设置好的圈套，剥夺你的名誉，打消你的自尊。你对这有什么看法？我看你无话可说，首先你身子依然虚弱，还得花好些工夫才能喘过气来；其次，你还不习惯于指控我，辱骂我；此外眼泪的闸门大开着，要是你说得太多，泪水会奔涌而出，你没有心思来劝说，来责备，来大闹一场。你在思索着怎样来行动——你认为空谈无济于事。我知道你—一我戒备着。”“Sir, I do not wish to act against you,” I said; and my unsteady voice warned me to curtail my sentence.“先生，我不想与你作对，”我说，我那发抖的嗓音警告我要把话缩短。“Not in your sense of the word, but in mine you are scheming to destroy me.  You have as good as said that I am a married man—as a married man you will shun me, keep out of my way: just now you have refused to kiss me.  You intend to make yourself a complete stranger to me: to live under this roof only as Adèle’s governess; if ever I say a friendly word to you, if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me, you will say,—‘That man had nearly made me his mistress: I must be ice and rock to him;’ and ice and rock you will accordingly become.”“不按你理解的字义而按我理解的字义来说，你正谋划着毁灭我。你等于已经说，我是一个已婚男子——正因为这样，你躲着我，避开我。刚才你已拒绝吻我，你想跟我完全成为陌路人，只不过作为阿黛勒的家庭教师住在这座房子里。要是我对你说了句友好的话，要是一种友好的感情使你再次向着我，你会说‘那个人差点让我成了他的情妇，我必须对他冷若冰霜’，于是你便真的冷若冰霜了。”I cleared and steadied my voice to reply: “All is changed about me, sir; I must change too—there is no doubt of that; and to avoid fluctuations of feeling, and continual combats with recollections and associations, there is only one way—Adèle must have a new governess, sir.”我清了清喉咙稳住了嗓子回答他，“我周围的一切都改变了，先生。我也必须改变——这是毫无疑问的，为了避免感情的波动，免得不断抵制回忆和联想，那就只有一个办法——阿黛勒得另请家庭教师，先生。”“Oh, Adèle will go to school—I have settled that already; nor do I mean to torment you with the hideous associations and recollections of Thornfield Hall—this accursed place—this tent of Achan—this insolent vault, offering the ghastliness of living death to the light of the open sky—this narrow stone hell, with its one real fiend, worse than a legion of such as we imagine.  Jane, you shall not stay here, nor will I.  I was wrong ever to bring you to Thornfield Hall, knowing as I did how it was haunted.  I charged them to conceal from you, before I ever saw you, all knowledge of the curse of the place; merely because I feared Adèle never would have a governess to stay if she knew with what inmate she was housed, and my plans would not permit me to remove the maniac elsewhere—though I possess an old house, Ferndean Manor, even more retired and hidden than this, where I could have lodged her safely enough, had not a scruple about the unhealthiness of the situation, in the heart of a wood, made my conscience recoil from the arrangement.  Probably those damp walls would soon have eased me of her charge: but to each villain his own vice; and mine is not a tendency to indirect assassination, even of what I most hate.“噢，阿黛勒要上学去——我已作了安排。我也无意拿桑菲尔德府可怕的联想和回忆来折磨你一—这是个可诅咒的地方——这个亚干的营帐——这个傲慢的墓穴，向着明亮开阔的天空，显现出生不如死的鬼相——这个狭窄的石头地狱，一个真正的魔鬼，抵得上我们想象中的一大批——简，你不要呆在这儿，我也不呆。我明知道桑菲尔德府鬼影憧憧，却把你带到这儿来，这是我的过错。我还没有见你就已责令他们把这个地方的祸害都瞒着你，只是因为我怕你一知道与谁同住在一个屋檐下，阿黛勒就找不到肯呆在这里的女教师了。而我的计划又不允许我把这疯子迁往别的地方，一—尽管我拥有一个比这里更幽静，更隐蔽的老房子，叫做芬丁庄园。要不是考虑到那里地处森林中心，环境很不卫生，我良心上羞于作这样的安排，我是很可以让她安安稳稳地住在那儿的。那里潮湿的墙壁可能会很快从我肩上卸下她这个包袱。不过恶棍种种，恶行各有不同，我的并不在于间接谋杀，即便是对付对我恨之入骨的人。“Concealing the mad-woman’s neighbourhood from you, however, was something like covering a child with a cloak and laying it down near a upas-tree: that demon’s vicinage is poisoned, and always was.  But I’ll shut up Thornfield Hall: I’ll nail up the front door and board the lower windows: I’ll give Mrs. Poole two hundred a year to live here with my wife, as you term that fearful hag: Grace will do much for money, and she shall have her son, the keeper at Grimsby Retreat, to bear her company and be at hand to give her aid in the paroxysms, when my wife is prompted by her familiar to burn people in their beds at night, to stab them, to bite their flesh from their bones, and so on—”“然而，把疯女人的住处瞒着你，不过是像用斗篷把一个孩子盖起来，把它放在一棵箭毒树旁边，那魔鬼把四周都毒化了，而只毒气不散，不过我将关闭桑菲尔德府，我要用钉子封住前门，用板条盖没矮窗。我要给普尔太太二百英镑一年，让她同我的妻子一—你称之为可怕的女巫，一起生活。只要给钱，格雷斯愿意干很多事，而且她可以让她在格里姆斯比收容所看门的儿子来作伴，我的妻子发作的时候，譬如受妖精的启发要把人们夜晚烧死在床上，用刀刺他们，从骨头上把肉咬下来的时候，格雷斯身边好歹也有个帮手。”“Sir,” I interrupted him, “you are inexorable for that unfortunate lady: you speak of her with hate—with vindictive antipathy.  It is cruel—she cannot help being mad.”“先生，”我打断他说，“对那个不幸的女人来说，你实在冷酷无情。你一谈起她就恨恨地——势不两立。那很残酷一一她发疯也是身不由己的。”“Jane, my little darling (so I will call you, for so you are), you don’t know what you are talking about; you misjudge me again: it is not because she is mad I hate her.  If you were mad, do you think I should hate you?”“简，我的小宝贝，（我会这么叫你，因为你确实是这样），你不了解你谈的事儿，你又错怪我了。我恨她并不是因为她发了疯。要是你疯了，你想我会恨你吗？”“I do indeed, sir.”“我想你会的，先生。”“Then you are mistaken, and you know nothing about me, and nothing about the sort of love of which I am capable.  Every atom of your flesh is as dear to me as my own: in pain and sickness it would still be dear.  Your mind is my treasure, and if it were broken, it would be my treasure still: if you raved, my arms should confine you, and not a strait waistcoat—your grasp, even in fury, would have a charm for me: if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning, I should receive you in an embrace, at least as fond as it would be restrictive.  I should not shrink from you with disgust as I did from her: in your quiet moments you should have no watcher and no nurse but me; and I could hang over you with untiring tenderness, though you gave me no smile in return; and never weary of gazing into your eyes, though they had no longer a ray of recognition for me.—But why do I follow that train of ideas?  I was talking of removing you from Thornfield.  All, you know, is prepared for prompt departure: to-morrow you shall go.  I only ask you to endure one more night under this roof, Jane; and then, farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever!  I have a place to repair to, which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences, from unwelcome intrusion—even from falsehood and slander.”“那你错了。你一点也不了解我，一点也不了解我会怎样地爱。你身上每一丁点皮肉如同我自己身上的一样，对我来说都非常宝贵，病痛之时也一样如此。你的脑袋是我的宝贝，要是出了毛病，也照样是我的宝贝。要是你呓语连篇，我的胳膊会围住你，而不是紧身马甲——即使在动怒的时候你乱抓乱拉，对我说来也是迷人的。要是你像今天早上的那个女人那样疯狂向我扑来，我会用拥抱接受你，至少既起到制止的作用，又显出抚爱来。我不会像厌恶地避开她一样避开你，在你安静的时刻，你身边没有监护人，没有护士，只有我。我会带着不倦的温柔体贴，在你身边走动，尽管你不会对我报之以微笑。我会永不厌腻地盯着你的眼睛，尽管那双眼睛已不再射出一缕确认我的光芒。——但是我干嘛要顺着那样的思路去想呢？我刚谈着让你离开桑菲尔德。你知道，一切都准备好了，让你立刻离开这里，明天你就走。我只不过求你在这间屋于里再忍受一个晚上，简，随后就向它的痛苦和恐怖诀别：我自有地方可去，那会是个安全的避难所，躲开可憎的回忆、不受欢迎的干扰——甚至还有欺诈和诽谤。”“And take Adèle with you, sir,” I interrupted; “she will be a companion for you.”“带着阿黛勒走吧，先生，”我插嘴说，“你也有她可以作伴了。”“What do you mean, Jane?  I told you I would send Adèle to school; and what do I want with a child for a companion, and not my own child,—a French dancer’s bastard?  Why do you importune me about her!  I say, why do you assign Adèle to me for a companion?”“你这是什么意思，简？我已告诉了你，我要送阿黛勒上学”我何必要一个孩子作伴？何况又不是我的孩子一—一个法国舞女的的杂种。你干嘛把我跟她缠在一起？我说，你为什么把阿黛勒派给我作伴？”“You spoke of a retirement, sir; and retirement and solitude are dull: too dull for you.”“你谈起了隐退，先生，而隐退和独处是乏味的，对你来说太乏味了。”“Solitude! solitude!” he reiterated with irritation.  “I see I must come to an explanation.  I don’t know what sphynx-like expression is forming in your countenance.  You are to share my solitude.  Do you understand?”“独处！独处！”他焦躁地重复了一遍。“我看我得作个解释。我不知道你的脸上正露出什么令人费解的表情。你也同我一样会独处，你知道吗？”I shook my head: it required a degree of courage, excited as he was becoming, even to risk that mute sign of dissent.  He had been walking fast about the room, and he stopped, as if suddenly rooted to one spot.  He looked at me long and hard: I turned my eyes from him, fixed them on the fire, and tried to assume and maintain a quiet, collected aspect.我摇了摇头。在他那么激动起来的时候，即使是冒险做个表示异议的暗号，也需要有点勇气。他在房间里飞快地走动着，随后停了下来，仿佛猛地在原地生了根似的，狠狠地打量了我半天。我把目光从他身上转开，聚集在火炉上，而且竭力摆出安宁、镇静的姿态。“Now for the hitch in Jane’s character,” he said at last, speaking more calmly than from his look I had expected him to speak.  “The reel of silk has run smoothly enough so far; but I always knew there would come a knot and a puzzle: here it is.  Now for vexation, and exasperation, and endless trouble!  By God!  I long to exert a fraction of Samson’s strength, and break the entanglement like tow!”“至于简性格上的障碍，”他终于说，比他的神态所让我期望的要镇定。“到现在为止，这团丝线还是转得够顺利的，但我向来知道，会出现结头和迷团，现在就是。此刻面对着烦恼、气怒和无休无止的麻烦！上帝呀！我真想动用参孙的一分力量，快刀斩乱麻！”He recommenced his walk, but soon again stopped, and this time just before me.他又开始走动，但很快停了下来，这回正好停在我面前。“Jane! will you hear reason?” (he stooped and approached his lips to my ear); “because, if you won’t, I’ll try violence.”  His voice was hoarse; his look that of a man who is just about to burst an insufferable bond and plunge headlong into wild license.  I saw that in another moment, and with one impetus of frenzy more, I should be able to do nothing with him.  The present—the passing second of time—was all I had in which to control and restrain him—a movement of repulsion, flight, fear would have sealed my doom,—and his.  But I was not afraid: not in the least.  I felt an inward power; a sense of influence, which supported me.  The crisis was perilous; but not without its charm: such as the Indian, perhaps, feels when he slips over the rapid in his canoe.  I took hold of his clenched hand, loosened the contorted fingers, and said to him, soothingly—“简！你愿意听我说理吗？（他弯下腰来，凑近我耳朵）因为要是你不听，我就要使用暴力了。”他的声音嘶哑，他的神态像是要冲破不可忍受的束缚，不顾一切地大胆放肆了。我在另一个场合见过这种情形，要是再增一分狂乱的冲动，我就对他无能为力了。此刻，唯有在一瞬之间将他控制住，不然，一个表示厌恶，逃避和胆怯的动作将置我自己一—还有他一一于死地。然而我并不害怕，丝毫没有。我感到一种内在的力量，一种气势在支持着我。危急关头往往险象环生，但也并非没有魅力，就像印第安人乘着皮筏穿过激流所感觉到的那样。我握住他捏得紧紧的手，松开他扭曲的手指，抚慰地对他说：“Sit down; I’ll talk to you as long as you like, and hear all you have to say, whether reasonable or unreasonable.”“坐下吧，你爱谈多久我就同你谈多久，你想说什么，不管有理无理，都听你说。”He sat down: but he did not get leave to speak directly.  I had been struggling with tears for some time: I had taken great pains to repress them, because I knew he would not like to see me weep.  Now, however, I considered it well to let them flow as freely and as long as they liked.  If the flood annoyed him, so much the better.  So I gave way and cried heartily.他坐了下来，但我并没有让他马上就开口，我己经强忍住眼泪多时，竭力不让它流下来，因为我知道他不喜欢看到我哭。但现在我认为还是让眼泪任意流淌好，爱淌多久就淌多久。要是一腔泪水使他生了气，那就更好。于是我放任自己，哭了个痛快。Soon I heard him earnestly entreating me to be composed.  I said I could not while he was in such a passion.不久我就听他真诚地求我镇静下来，我说他那么怒火冲天，我可无法镇静下来。“But I am not angry, Jane: I only love you too well; and you had steeled your little pale face with such a resolute, frozen look, I could not endure it.  Hush, now, and wipe your eyes.”“可是我没有生气，简。我只是太爱你了。你那苍白的小脸神色木然，铁板一块，我可受不了。安静下来，噢，把眼睛擦一擦。”His softened voice announced that he was subdued; so I, in my turn, became calm.  Now he made an effort to rest his head on my shoulder, but I would not permit it.  Then he would draw me to him: no.他口气软了下来，说明他己经克制住了。因此我也随之镇静下来。这时他试着要把他的头靠在我肩上，但我不允许，随后他要一把将我拉过去。不行！“Jane! Jane!” he said, in such an accent of bitter sadness it thrilled along every nerve I had; “you don’t love me, then?  It was only my station, and the rank of my wife, that you valued?  Now that you think me disqualified to become your husband, you recoil from my touch as if I were some toad or ape.”“简！简！”他说。声调那么伤心，我的每根神经都颤栗起来了。“那么你不爱我了？你看重的只是我的地位以及作为我妻子的身份？现在你认为我不配作你的丈夫，你就害怕我碰你一碰了，好像我是什么癞蛤蟆或者猿猴似的。”These words cut me: yet what could I do or I say?  I ought probably to have done or said nothing; but I was so tortured by a sense of remorse at thus hurting his feelings, I could not control the wish to drop balm where I had wounded.这些话使我感到难受，可是我能做什么，说什么呢？也许我应当什么也别做，什么也别说。但是我被悔恨折磨着，因为我伤了他的感情，我无法抑制自己的愿望，在我制造的伤口上贴上膏药。“I do love you,” I said, “more than ever: but I must not show or indulge the feeling: and this is the last time I must express it.”“我确实爱你，”我说，“从来没有这么爱过。但我决不能表露或纵容这种感情。这是我最后一次表达了。”“The last time, Jane!  What! do you think you can live with me, and see me daily, and yet, if you still love me, be always cold and distant?”“最后一次，简！什么！你认为可以跟我住在一起，天天看到我，而同时要是仍爱我，却又经常保持冷漠和疏远吗？”“No, sir; that I am certain I could not; and therefore I see there is but one way: but you will be furious if I mention it.”“不，先生，我肯定不行，因此我认为只有一个办法，但要是我说出来，你准会发火。”“Oh, mention it!  If I storm, you have the art of weeping.”“噢，说吧！我就是大发雷霆，你也有哭哭啼啼的本事。”“Mr. Rochester, I must leave you.”“罗切斯特先生，我得离开你。”“For how long, Jane?  For a few minutes, while you smooth your hair—which is somewhat dishevelled; and bathe your face—which looks feverish?”“离开多久，简？几分钟工夫吧，梳理一下你有些蓬乱的头发，洗一下你看上去有些发烧的脸吗？”“I must leave Adèle and Thornfield.  I must part with you for my whole life: I must begin a new existence among strange faces and strange scenes.”“我得离开阿黛勒和桑菲尔德。我得永生永世离开你。我得在陌生的面孔和陌生的环境中开始新的生活。”“Of course: I told you you should.  I pass over the madness about parting from me.  You mean you must become a part of me.  As to the new existence, it is all right: you shall yet be my wife: I am not married.  You shall be Mrs. Rochester—both virtually and nominally.  I shall keep only to you so long as you and I live.  You shall go to a place I have in the south of France: a whitewashed villa on the shores of the Mediterranean.  There you shall live a happy, and guarded, and most innocent life.  Never fear that I wish to lure you into error—to make you my mistress.  Why did you shake your head?  Jane, you must be reasonable, or in truth I shall again become frantic.”“当然。我同你说过你应当这样。我不理睬你一味要走的疯话。你的意思是你得成为我的一部份。至于新的生活，那很好，但你得成为我的妻子。我没有结过婚。你得成为罗切斯特太太——应当名实相符。只要你我还活着，我只会守着你。你得到我在法国南部拥有的一个地方，地中海沿岸一座墙壁雪白的别墅。在那里有人守护着你，你准会过着无忧无虑的幸福生活。决不必担心我会引诱你上当一—让你成为我的情妇。你为什么摇头？简，你得通情达理，要不然我真的会再发狂的。”His voice and hand quivered: his large nostrils dilated; his eye blazed: still I dared to speak.他的嗓子和手都颤抖着，他大大的鼻孔扇动着，他的眼睛冒着火光，但我依然敢说——“Sir, your wife is living: that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself.  If I lived with you as you desire, I should then be your mistress: to say otherwise is sophistical—is false.”“先生，你的妻子还活着，这是早上你自己承认的事实。要是按你的希望同你一起生活，我岂不成了你的情妇。别的说法都是诡辩一—是欺骗。”“Jane, I am not a gentle-tempered man—you forget that: I am not long-enduring; I am not cool and dispassionate.  Out of pity to me and yourself, put your finger on my pulse, feel how it throbs, and—beware!”“简，我不是一个脾气温和的人——你忘了这点。我忍不了很久。我并不冷静，也不是一个不动感情的人，可怜可怜我和你自己吧，把你的手指按在我脉搏上，感觉一下它怎样跳动吧，而且当心——”He bared his wrist, and offered it to me: the blood was forsaking his cheek and lips, they were growing livid; I was distressed on all hands.  To agitate him thus deeply, by a resistance he so abhorred, was cruel: to yield was out of the question.  I did what human beings do instinctively when they are driven to utter extremity—looked for aid to one higher than man: the words “God help me!” burst involuntarily from my lips.他露出手腕，伸向我。他的脸颊和嘴唇因为失血而变得苍白。我左右为难，十分苦恼。用他所厌恶的拒绝把他煽动起来吧，那是残酷的；要让步呢，又不可能。我做了一件走投无路的人出于本能会做的事——求助于高于凡人的神明。“上帝帮助我！”这句话从我嘴里脱口而出。“I am a fool!” cried Mr. Rochester suddenly.  “I keep telling her I am not married, and do not explain to her why.  I forget she knows nothing of the character of that woman, or of the circumstances attending my infernal union with her.  Oh, I am certain Jane will agree with me in opinion, when she knows all that I know!  Just put your hand in mine, Janet—that I may have the evidence of touch as well as sight, to prove you are near me—and I will in a few words show you the real state of the case.  Can you listen to me?”“我真傻：”罗切斯特先生突然说。“我老是告诉她我没有结过婚，却没有解释为什么。我忘了她一点也不知道那个女人的性格，不知道我同她地狱一般结合的背景。呵，我可以肯定，一旦简知道了我所知道的一切，她准会同意我的看法。把你的手放在我的手里，简妮特——这样我有接触和目光为依据，证明你在我旁边——我会用寥寥几句话，告诉你事情的真相。你能听我吗？”“Yes, sir; for hours if you will.”“是的，先生。听你几小时都行。”“I ask only minutes.  Jane, did you ever hear or know that I was not the eldest son of my house: that I had once a brother older than I?”“我只要求几分钟。简，你是否听到过，或者知道我在家里不是老大，我还有一个年龄比我大的哥哥？”“I remember Mrs. Fairfax told me so once.”“我记得费尔法克斯太太一次告诉过我。”“And did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious, grasping man?”“你听说过我的父亲是个贪得无厌的人吗？”“I have understood something to that effect.”“我大致了解一些。”“Well, Jane, being so, it was his resolution to keep the property together; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving me a fair portion: all, he resolved, should go to my brother, Rowland.  Yet as little could he endure that a son of his should be a poor man.  I must be provided for by a wealthy marriage.  He sought me a partner betimes.  Mr. Mason, a West India planter and merchant, was his old acquaintance.  He was certain his possessions were real and vast: he made inquiries.  Mr. Mason, he found, had a son and daughter; and he learned from him that he could and would give the latter a fortune of thirty thousand pounds: that sufficed.  When I left college, I was sent out to Jamaica, to espouse a bride already courted for me.  My father said nothing about her money; but he told me Miss Mason was the boast of Spanish Town for her beauty: and this was no lie.  I found her a fine woman, in the style of Blanche Ingram: tall, dark, and majestic.  Her family wished to secure me because I was of a good race; and so did she.  They showed her to me in parties, splendidly dressed.  I seldom saw her alone, and had very little private conversation with her.  She flattered me, and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms and accomplishments.  All the men in her circle seemed to admire her and envy me.  I was dazzled, stimulated: my senses were excited; and being ignorant, raw, and inexperienced, I thought I loved her.  There is no folly so besotted that the idiotic rivalries of society, the prurience, the rashness, the blindness of youth, will not hurry a man to its commission.  Her relatives encouraged me; competitors piqued me; she allured me: a marriage was achieved almost before I knew where I was.  Oh, I have no respect for myself when I think of that act!—an agony of inward contempt masters me.  I never loved, I never esteemed, I did not even know her.  I was not sure of the existence of one virtue in her nature: I had marked neither modesty, nor benevolence, nor candour, nor refinement in her mind or manners—and, I married her:—gross, grovelling, mole-eyed blockhead that I was!  With less sin I might have—But let me remember to whom I am speaking.”“好吧，简，出于贪婪，我父亲决心把他的财产合在一起，而不能容忍把它分割，留给我相当一部分。他决定一切都归我哥哥罗兰，然而也不忍心我这个儿子成为穷光蛋，还得通过一桩富有的婚事解决我的生计。不久之后他替我找了个伴侣。他有一个叫梅森先生的老相识，是西印度的种植园主和商人。他作了调查，肯定梅森先生家业很大。他发现梅森先生有一双儿女，还知道他能够，也愿意给他的女儿三万英镑的财产，那已经足够了。我一离开大学就被送往牙买加，跟一个已经替我求了爱的新娘成婚。我的父亲只字不提她的钱，却告诉我在西班牙城梅森小姐有倾城之貌，这倒不假。她是个美人，有布兰奇．英格拉姆的派头，身材高大，皮肤黝黑，雍容华贵。她家里也希望把我弄到手，因为我身世不错，和她一样。他们把她带到聚会上给我看，打扮得花枝招展。我难得单独见她，也很少同她私下交谈。她恭维我，还故意卖弄姿色和才艺来讨好我。她圈子里的男人似乎都被她所倾倒，同时也羡慕我，我被弄得眼花缭乱，激动不已。我的感官被刺激起来了，由于幼稚无知，没有经验，以为自己爱上了她。社交场中的愚蠢角逐、年青人的好色、鲁莽和盲目，会使人什么糊里糊涂的蠢事都干得出来。她的亲戚们怂恿我；情敌们激怒我；她来勾引我。于是我还几乎不知道是怎么回事儿，婚事就定了。呵一—一想起这种行为我便失去了自尊！一—我被内心一种自我鄙视的痛苦所压倒，我从来没有爱过她，敬重过她，甚至也不了解她。她天性中有没有一种美德我都没有把握。在她的内心或举止中，我既没有看到谦逊和仁慈，也没有看到坦诚和高雅。而我娶了她—一我是多么粗俗，多么没有骨气！真是个有眼无珠的大傻瓜！要是我没有那么大的过失，也许我早就——不过还是让我记住我在同谁说话。“My bride’s mother I had never seen: I understood she was dead.  The honeymoon over, I learned my mistake; she was only mad, and shut up in a lunatic asylum.  There was a younger brother, too—a complete dumb idiot.  The elder one, whom you have seen (and whom I cannot hate, whilst I abhor all his kindred, because he has some grains of affection in his feeble mind, shown in the continued interest he takes in his wretched sister, and also in a dog-like attachment he once bore me), will probably be in the same state one day.  My father and my brother Rowland knew all this; but they thought only of the thirty thousand pounds, and joined in the plot against me.”“新娘的母亲我从来没有见过，我以为她死了。但蜜月一过，我便发现自己搞错了。她不过是疯了，被关在疯人院里。我妻子还有个弟弟，是个不会说话的白痴。你所见到的大弟（尽管我讨厌他的亲人，却并不恨他，因为在他软弱的灵魂中，还有许多爱心，表现在他对可怜的姐姐一直很关心，以及对我一度显出狗一般的依恋）有一天很可能也会落到这个地步。我父亲和我哥哥罗兰对这些情况都知道，但他们只想到三万英镑，并且狼狈为奸坑害我。“These were vile discoveries; but except for the treachery of concealment, I should have made them no subject of reproach to my wife, even when I found her nature wholly alien to mine, her tastes obnoxious to me, her cast of mind common, low, narrow, and singularly incapable of being led to anything higher, expanded to anything larger—when I found that I could not pass a single evening, nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us, because whatever topic I started, immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite, perverse and imbecile—when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled household, because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper, or the vexations of her absurd, contradictory, exacting orders—even then I restrained myself: I eschewed upbraiding, I curtailed remonstrance; I tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt.“这都是些丑恶的发现，但是，除了隐瞒实情的欺诈行为，我不应当把这些都怪罪于我的妻子。尽管我发现她的个性与我格格不入，她的趣味使我感到厌恶，她的气质平庸、低下、狭隘，完全不可能向更高处引导，向更广处发展；我发现无法同她舒舒畅畅地度过一个晚上，甚至一个小时。我们之间没有真诚的对话，因为—谈任何话题，马上会得到她既粗俗又陈腐，即怪僻又愚蠢的呼应——我发觉自己决不会有一个清静安定的家，因为没有一个仆人能忍受她不断发作暴烈无理的脾性，能忍受她荒唐、矛盾和苛刻的命令所带来的烦恼一—即使那样，我也克制住了。我避免责备，减少规劝，悄悄地吞下了自己的悔恨和厌恶。我抑制住了自己的反感。“Jane, I will not trouble you with abominable details: some strong words shall express what I have to say.  I lived with that woman upstairs four years, and before that time she had tried me indeed: her character ripened and developed with frightful rapidity; her vices sprang up fast and rank: they were so strong, only cruelty could check them, and I would not use cruelty.  What a pigmy intellect she had, and what giant propensities!  How fearful were the curses those propensities entailed on me!  Bertha Mason, the true daughter of an infamous mother, dragged me through all the hideous and degrading agonies which must attend a man bound to a wife at once intemperate and unchaste.“简，我不想用讨厌的细节来打扰你了，我要说的话可以用几句激烈的话来表达。我跟那个女人在楼上住了四年，在那之前她折磨得我够呛。她的性格成熟了，并可怕地急剧发展；她的劣迹层出不穷，而且那么严重，只有使用残暴的手段才能加以制止，而我又不忍心，她的智力那么弱一—而她的冲动又何等之强呵！那些冲动给我造成了多么可怕的灾祸！伯莎．梅森——一个声名狼藉的母亲的真正的女儿——把我拉进了堕落骇人的痛苦深渊。一个男人同一个既放纵又鄙俗的妻子结合，这必定是在劫难逃的。“My brother in the interval was dead, and at the end of the four years my father died too.  I was rich enough now—yet poor to hideous indigence: a nature the most gross, impure, depraved I ever saw, was associated with mine, and called by the law and by society a part of me.  And I could not rid myself of it by any legal proceedings: for the doctors now discovered that my wife was mad—her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity.  Jane, you don’t like my narrative; you look almost sick—shall I defer the rest to another day?”“在这期间我的哥哥死了，四年之后我父亲相继去世。从此我够富有的了——同时又穷得可怕。我所见过的最粗俗、最肮脏、最下贱的属性同我联系在一起，被法律和社会称作我的一部分。而我开法通过任何法律程序加以摆脱，因为这时医生们发觉我的妻子疯了——她的放肆已经使发疯的种子早熟一—简，你不喜欢我的叙述，你看上去几乎很厌恶一—其余的话是不是改日再谈？”“No, sir, finish it now; I pity you—I do earnestly pity you.”“不，先生，现在就讲完它。我怜悯你一—我真诚地怜悯你。”“Pity, Jane, from some people is a noxious and insulting sort of tribute, which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of those who offer it; but that is the sort of pity native to callous, selfish hearts; it is a hybrid, egotistical pain at hearing of woes, crossed with ignorant contempt for those who have endured them.  But that is not your pity, Jane; it is not the feeling of which your whole face is full at this moment—with which your eyes are now almost overflowing—with which your heart is heaving—with which your hand is trembling in mine.  Your pity, my darling, is the suffering mother of love: its anguish is the very natal pang of the divine passion.  I accept it, Jane; let the daughter have free advent—my arms wait to receive her.”“怜悯，这个词出自某些人之口时，简，是讨厌而带有污辱性的，完全有理由把它奉还给说出来的人。不过那是内心自私无情的人的怜悯，这是听到灾祸以后所产生的以自我为中心的痛苦，混杂着对受害者的盲目鄙视。但这不是你的怜悯，简，此刻你满脸透出的不是这种感情。——此刻你眼睛里洋溢着的——你内心搏动着的——使你的手颤抖的是另一种感情。我的宝贝，你的怜悯是爱的痛苦母亲，它的痛苦是神圣的热恋出世时的阵痛。我接受了，简！让那女儿自由地降生吧——我的怀抱已等待着接纳她了。”“Now, sir, proceed; what did you do when you found she was mad?”“好，先生，说下去，你发现她疯了以后怎么办呢？”“Jane, I approached the verge of despair; a remnant of self-respect was all that intervened between me and the gulf.  In the eyes of the world, I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour; but I resolved to be clean in my own sight—and to the last I repudiated the contamination of her crimes, and wrenched myself from connection with her mental defects.  Still, society associated my name and person with hers; I yet saw her and heard her daily: something of her breath (faugh!) mixed with the air I breathed; and besides, I remembered I had once been her husband—that recollection was then, and is now, inexpressibly odious to me; moreover, I knew that while she lived I could never be the husband of another and better wife; and, though five years my senior (her family and her father had lied to me even in the particular of her age), she was likely to live as long as I, being as robust in frame as she was infirm in mind.  Thus, at the age of twenty-six, I was hopeless.“简——我到了绝望的边缘，能把我和深渊隔开的就只剩自尊了。在世人的眼里，无疑我已是名誉扫地，但我决心在自己眼里保持清白——我终于拒绝接受她的罪孽的感染，挣脱了同她神经缺陷的联系。但社会依然把我的名字，我本人和她捆在一起，我仍旧天天看到她，听到她。她呼吸的一部分（呸！）混杂在我呼吸的空气中。此外，我还记得我曾是她的丈夫一一对我来说这种联想过去和现在都有说不出的憎恶。而且我知道，只要她还活着，我就永远不能成为另一个更好的妻子的丈夫。尽管她比我大五岁（她的家庭和她的父亲甚至在她年龄细节上也骗了我），她很可能跟我活得一样长，因为她虽然头脑衰弱，但体魄强健。于是在二十六岁的年纪上，我便全然无望了。“One night I had been awakened by her yells—(since the medical men had pronounced her mad, she had, of course, been shut up)—it was a fiery West Indian night; one of the description that frequently precede the hurricanes of those climates.  Being unable to sleep in bed, I got up and opened the window.  The air was like sulphur-steams—I could find no refreshment anywhere.  Mosquitoes came buzzing in and hummed sullenly round the room; the sea, which I could hear from thence, rumbled dull like an earthquake—black clouds were casting up over it; the moon was setting in the waves, broad and red, like a hot cannon-ball—she threw her last bloody glance over a world quivering with the ferment of tempest.  I was physically influenced by the atmosphere and scene, and my ears were filled with the curses the maniac still shrieked out; wherein she momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate, with such language!—no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary than she: though two rooms off, I heard every word—the thin partitions of the West India house opposing but slight obstruction to her wolfish cries.“一天夜里我被她的叫喊惊醒了（自从医生宣布她疯了以后，她当然是被关起来了）一一那是西印度群岛火燎似的夜晚，这种天气常常是飓风到来的前奏。我难以入睡，便爬起来开了窗。空气像含硫的蒸气—一到处都让人提不起神来。蚊子嗡嗡的飞进来，阴沉地在房间里打转。在那儿我能听到大海之声，像地震一般沉闷地隆隆响着。黑云在大海上空集结，月亮沉落在宽阔的红色波浪上，像一个滚烫的炮弹一—向颤抖着正酝酿风暴的海洋，投去血色的目光。我确实深受这种气氛和景色的感染，而我的耳朵却充斥着疯子尖叫着的咒骂声。咒骂中夹杂着我的名字，语调里那么充满仇恨，语言又那么肮脏！一—没有一个以卖淫为业的妓女，会使用比她更污秽的字眼，尽管隔了两个房间，我每个字都听得清清楚楚——西印度群岛薄薄的隔板丝毫挡不住她狼一般的嚎叫。“‘This life,’ said I at last, ‘is hell: this is the air—those are the sounds of the bottomless pit!  I have a right to deliver myself from it if I can.  The sufferings of this mortal state will leave me with the heavy flesh that now cumbers my soul.  Of the fanatic’s burning eternity I have no fear: there is not a future state worse than this present one—let me break away, and go home to God!’“‘这种生活，’我终于说，‘是地狱！这就是无底深渊里的空气和声音！要是我能够，我有权解脱自己。人世的痛苦连同拖累我灵魂的沉重肉体会离我而去。对狂热者信奉的地狱之火，我并不害怕。将来的状况不会比现在的更糟——让我摆脱，回到上帝那儿去吧！’“I said this whilst I knelt down at, and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols: I mean to shoot myself.  I only entertained the intention for a moment; for, not being insane, the crisis of exquisite and unalloyed despair, which had originated the wish and design of self-destruction, was past in a second.“我一面说，一面蹲在一只箱子旁边，把锁打开，箱子里放着一对上了子弹的手枪。我想开枪自杀。但这一念头只转了一会儿，由于我没有发疯，那种激起自杀念头并使我万念俱灰的危机，刹那间过去了。“A wind fresh from Europe blew over the ocean and rushed through the open casement: the storm broke, streamed, thundered, blazed, and the air grew pure.  I then framed and fixed a resolution.  While I walked under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden, and amongst its drenched pomegranates and pine-apples, and while the refulgent dawn of the tropics kindled round me—I reasoned thus, Jane—and now listen; for it was true Wisdom that consoled me in that hour, and showed me the right path to follow.“刚刚来自欧洲的风吹过洋面，穿过宽敞的窗户。暴风雨到来了，大雨滂沱，雷鸣电闪，空气变得清新了。随后我设想并下定了决心。我在湿漉漉的园子里水珠滴嗒的桔子树下，在湿透的石榴和菠萝树中间漫步，周围燃起了灿烂的热带黎明一—于是我思考着，简—一噢，听着，在那一时刻真正的智慧抚慰了我，向我指明了正确的道路。“The sweet wind from Europe was still whispering in the refreshed leaves, and the Atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty; my heart, dried up and scorched for a long time, swelled to the tone, and filled with living blood—my being longed for renewal—my soul thirsted for a pure draught.  I saw hope revive—and felt regeneration possible.  From a flowery arch at the bottom of my garden I gazed over the sea—bluer than the sky: the old world was beyond; clear prospects opened thus:—“从欧洲吹来的甜甜的凤，在格外清新的树叶间耳语，大西洋自由自在地咆哮着。我那颗早已干枯和焦灼的心，对着那声音舒张开来，注满了活的血液一—我的身躯向往新生——我的心灵渴望甘露。我看见希望复活了——感到重生有了可能。我从花园顶端拱形花棚下眺望着大海——它比天空更加蔚蓝。旧世界已经远去，清晰的前景展现在面前，于是：“‘Go,’ said Hope, ‘and live again in Europe: there it is not known what a sullied name you bear, nor what a filthy burden is bound to you.  You may take the maniac with you to England; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield: then travel yourself to what clime you will, and form what new tie you like.  That woman, who has so abused your long-suffering, so sullied your name, so outraged your honour, so blighted your youth, is not your wife, nor are you her husband.  See that she is cared for as her condition demands, and you have done all that God and humanity require of you.  Let her identity, her connection with yourself, be buried in oblivion: you are bound to impart them to no living being.  Place her in safety and comfort: shelter her degradation with secrecy, and leave her.’“‘走吧，’希望说，‘再到欧洲去生活吧，在那里你那被玷污的名字不为人所知，也没有人知道你背负着龌龊的重荷。你可以把疯子带往英国，关在桑菲尔德，给予应有的照料和戒备。然后到随便哪个地方去旅游，结识你喜欢的新关系。那个女人恣意让你如此长期受苦，如此败坏你的名声，如此侵犯你的荣誉，如此毁灭你的青春，她不是你妻子，你也不是她丈夫。注意让她按病情需要得到照应，那你就已做了上帝和人类要求你的一切。让她的身份，她同你的关系永远被忘却，你决不要把这些告诉任何活人。把她安置在一个安全舒适的地方，悄悄地把她的堕落掩藏起来，离开她吧。’”“I acted precisely on this suggestion.  My father and brother had not made my marriage known to their acquaintance; because, in the very first letter I wrote to apprise them of the union—having already begun to experience extreme disgust of its consequences, and, from the family character and constitution, seeing a hideous future opening to me—I added an urgent charge to keep it secret: and very soon the infamous conduct of the wife my father had selected for me was such as to make him blush to own her as his daughter-in-law.  Far from desiring to publish the connection, he became as anxious to conceal it as myself.“我完全按这个建议去做。我的父亲和哥哥没有把我婚姻的底细透给他们的旧识，因为在我写给他们的第一封信里，我就向他们通报了我的婚配——已经开始感受到它极其讨厌的后果，而且从那一家人的性格和体质中，看到了我可怕的前景一一我附带又敦促他们严守秘密。不久，我父亲替我选中的妻子的丑行，己经到了这个地步，使他也羞于认她为媳了。对这一关系他远不想大事声张，却像我一样急于把它掩盖起来。“To England, then, I conveyed her; a fearful voyage I had with such a monster in the vessel.  Glad was I when I at last got her to Thornfield, and saw her safely lodged in that third-storey room, of whose secret inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild beast’s den—a goblin’s cell.  I had some trouble in finding an attendant for her, as it was necessary to select one on whose fidelity dependence could be placed; for her ravings would inevitably betray my secret: besides, she had lucid intervals of days—sometimes weeks—which she filled up with abuse of me.  At last I hired Grace Poole from the Grimbsy Retreat.  She and the surgeon, Carter (who dressed Mason’s wounds that night he was stabbed and worried), are the only two I have ever admitted to my confidence.  Mrs. Fairfax may indeed have suspected something, but she could have gained no precise knowledge as to facts.  Grace has, on the whole, proved a good keeper; though, owing partly to a fault of her own, of which it appears nothing can cure her, and which is incident to her harassing profession, her vigilance has been more than once lulled and baffled.  The lunatic is both cunning and malignant; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian’s temporary lapses; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother, and twice to possess herself of the key of her cell, and issue therefrom in the night-time.  On the first of these occasions, she perpetrated the attempt to burn me in my bed; on the second, she paid that ghastly visit to you.  I thank Providence, who watched over you, that she then spent her fury on your wedding apparel, which perhaps brought back vague reminiscences of her own bridal days: but on what might have happened, I cannot endure to reflect.  When I think of the thing which flew at my throat this morning, hanging its black and scarlet visage over the nest of my dove, my blood curdles—”“随后我把她送到了英格兰，同这么个怪物呆在船上，经历了一次可怕的航行。我非常高兴，最后终于把她送到了桑菲尔德，看她平安地住在三楼房间里。房间的内密室，十年来己被她弄成了野兽的巢穴——妖怪的密室。我费了一番周折找人服侍她。有必要选择一位忠实可靠的人，因为她的呓语必然会泄露我的秘密。此外，她还有神志清醒的日子——有时几周——这种时候她整日价骂我。最后我从格里姆斯比收容所雇来了格雷斯•普尔。她和外科医生卡特（梅森被刺并心事重重的那个夜晚，是他给梅森包，扎了伤口），只有这两个人，我让他们知道我内心的秘密。费尔法克斯太太其实也许有些怀疑，但无法确切了解有关事实。总的来说，格雷斯证明是个好管家。但多半是因为伴随这折磨人的差事而来，而又无可救药的自身缺陷，她不止一次放松警戒，出了事情。这个疯子既狡猾又恶毒，决不放过机会，利用看护人暂时的疏忽。有一次她偷偷拿刀捅了她弟弟，有两次搞到了她小房间的钥匙，并且夜间从那里走了出来。在以上第一个场合，她蓄意把我烧死在床上，第二次，她找到你门上来了。我感谢上帝守护你。随后她把火发在你的婚装上，那也许使她朦胧地记起了自己当新娘的日子，至于还可能发生什么，我不忍心再回想了，当我想起早上扑向我喉咙的东西，想起它把又黑又红的脸凑向我宝贝的窝里时，我的血凝结了——”“And what, sir,” I asked, while he paused, “did you do when you had settled her here?  Where did you go?”“那么，先生，”趁他顿住时我问，“你把她安顿在这里后，自己干了什么呢？你上哪儿去了”“What did I do, Jane?  I transformed myself into a will-o’-the-wisp.  Where did I go?  I pursued wanderings as wild as those of the March-spirit.  I sought the Continent, and went devious through all its lands.  My fixed desire was to seek and find a good and intelligent woman, whom I could love: a contrast to the fury I left at Thornfield—”“我干了什么吗，简？我让自己变成了一个形踪不定的人。我上哪儿去了？我像沼泽地的精灵那样东游西荡，去了欧洲大陆，迂回曲折穿越了那里所有的国家。我打定主意找一个我可以爱她的出色聪明的女人，与我留在桑菲尔德的泼妇恰成对比一一，“But you could not marry, sir.”“但你不能结婚，先生。”“I had determined and was convinced that I could and ought.  It was not my original intention to deceive, as I have deceived you.  I meant to tell my tale plainly, and make my proposals openly: and it appeared to me so absolutely rational that I should be considered free to love and be loved, I never doubted some woman might be found willing and able to understand my case and accept me, in spite of the curse with which I was burdened.”“我决心而且深信我能够结婚，也应该结婚，我虽然己经骗了你，但欺骗不是我的初衷。我打算将自己的事儿坦诚相告，公开求婚。我应当被认为有爱和被爱的自由，在我看来这是绝对合理的。我从不怀疑能找到某个女人，愿意并理解我的处境，接纳我，尽管我背着该诅咒的包袱。”“Well, sir?”“那么，先生？”“When you are inquisitive, Jane, you always make me smile.  You open your eyes like an eager bird, and make every now and then a restless movement, as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough for you, and you wanted to read the tablet of one’s heart.  But before I go on, tell me what you mean by your ‘Well, sir?’  It is a small phrase very frequent with you; and which many a time has drawn me on and on through interminable talk: I don’t very well know why.”“当你刨根究底时，简，你常常使我发笑。你像一只急切的小鸟那样张开眼睛，时而局促不安地动来动去，仿佛口头回答的语速太慢，你还想读一读人家心上的铭文。我往下说之前，告诉我你的‘那么，先生？’是什么意思。这个小小的短语你经常挂在嘴边，很多次是它把我导入无休止的交谈，连我自己也不十分清楚究竟为什么？”“I mean,—What next?  How did you proceed?  What came of such an event?”“我的意思是——随后发生了什么？你怎么继续下去？这件事情后来怎样了？”“Precisely! and what do you wish to know now?”“完全如此。现在你希望知道什么呢？”“Whether you found any one you liked: whether you asked her to marry you; and what she said.”“你是否发现了一个你喜欢的人，是否求她嫁给你，她说了些什么。”“I can tell you whether I found any one I liked, and whether I asked her to marry me: but what she said is yet to be recorded in the book of Fate.  For ten long years I roved about, living first in one capital, then another: sometimes in St. Petersburg; oftener in Paris; occasionally in Rome, Naples, and Florence.  Provided with plenty of money and the passport of an old name, I could choose my own society: no circles were closed against me.  I sought my ideal of a woman amongst English ladies, French countesses, Italian signoras, and German gräfinnen.  I could not find her.  Sometimes, for a fleeting moment, I thought I caught a glance, heard a tone, beheld a form, which announced the realisation of my dream: but I was presently undeserved.  You are not to suppose that I desired perfection, either of mind or person.  I longed only for what suited me—for the antipodes of the Creole: and I longed vainly.  Amongst them all I found not one whom, had I been ever so free, I—warned as I was of the risks, the horrors, the loathings of incongruous unions—would have asked to marry me.  Disappointment made me reckless.  I tried dissipation—never debauchery: that I hated, and hate.  That was my Indian Messalina’s attribute: rooted disgust at it and her restrained me much, even in pleasure.  Any enjoyment that bordered on riot seemed to approach me to her and her vices, and I eschewed it.“我可以告诉你是否找到了自己喜欢的人，是否向她求婚，但是她所说的话却要记录在‘命运’的书本里。十年中我四处飘泊，先住在一个国家的首都，后来又到了另外一个。有时在圣．彼得堡，更多的时候在巴黎，偶尔在罗马、那不勒斯和佛罗伦萨。因为身边有的是钱，又有祖辈的威名作通行证，我可选择自己的社交领域，没有哪个圈子会拒绝我。我寻找着我理想中的女人，在英国的女士中间，法国的伯爵夫人中间，意大利的signoras中间和德国的Ｇrafinner中间。我找不到她。有时刹那之间我以为抓住了一个眼神，听到了一种腔调，看到了一种体形，宣告我的梦想就要实现，但我又马上醒悟了。你别以为我无论在心灵还是人本身上渴求完美，我只是盼望有适合我的人——与克里奥尔人形，成对比，而我徒劳地企望着。即使我完全自由——我常常回想起不和谐的婚姻的危险、可怕和可憎一—在她们所有的人中间，我也找不到一个可以向她求婚的人。失望使我变得轻率起来。我尝试了放荡一—但从来没有纵欲。过去和现在我都厌恶纵欲，那恰是我的那位西印度荡妇的特点，我对她和她的淫荡深恶痛绝，所以即使在作乐时也有所约束。一切近乎淫荡的享受，会使我同她和她的罪恶靠拢，于是我尽力避免。“Yet I could not live alone; so I tried the companionship of mistresses.  The first I chose was Céline Varens—another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them.  You already know what she was, and how my liaison with her terminated.  She had two successors: an Italian, Giacinta, and a German, Clara; both considered singularly handsome.  What was their beauty to me in a few weeks?  Giacinta was unprincipled and violent: I tired of her in three months.  Clara was honest and quiet; but heavy, mindless, and unimpressible: not one whit to my taste.  I was glad to give her a sufficient sum to set her up in a good line of business, and so get decently rid of her.  But, Jane, I see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now.  You think me an unfeeling, loose-principled rake: don’t you?”“但是我无法单独生活，所以我尝试找情妇来作伴。我第一个选中的是塞莉纳．瓦伦一一我所走的另一步，使人一想起来就会唾弃自己。你已经知道她是怎么个人，我们之间的私通是如何结束的。她之后有两个后继者，一个是意大利人嘉辛塔；另一个是德国人克莱拉，两人都被认为美貌绝伦。但是几周之后我觉得她们的美貌对我又有什么意思？嘉辛塔肆无忌惮，性格暴烈，过了三个月我就讨厌了；克莱拉诚实文静，但反应迟钝，没有头脑，很不敏感，一点也不对我口味。我很高兴给了她相当一笔钱，替她找到了一个很好的行当，体面地把她撵走了。可是简，从你的脸上可以看出，刚才你对我的印象并不很好，你认为我是一个冷酷无情、放荡不羁的流氓，是吗？”“I don’t like you so well as I have done sometimes, indeed, sir.  Did it not seem to you in the least wrong to live in that way, first with one mistress and then another?  You talk of it as a mere matter of course.”“说实在我并不像有时那么喜欢你，先生。你难道一点也不觉得这种一会儿这个情妇，一会儿那个情妇的生活方式不对吗？你谈起来仿佛这是理所当然的。”“It was with me; and I did not like it.  It was a grovelling fashion of existence: I should never like to return to it.  Hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave: both are often by nature, and always by position, inferior: and to live familiarly with inferiors is degrading.  I now hate the recollection of the time I passed with Céline, Giacinta, and Clara.”“我是曾有这个想法，但我并不喜欢这么做。这是一种苟旦偷生的生活，我决不想走回头路了。雇一个情妇之坏仅次于买一个奴隶，两者就本性和地位而言都是低下的，同下人厮混是堕落，现在我讨厌回忆同塞莉纳、嘉辛塔和克莱拉一起的日子。”I felt the truth of these words; and I drew from them the certain inference, that if I were so far to forget myself and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me, as—under any pretext—with any justification—through any temptation—to become the successor of these poor girls, he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory.  I did not give utterance to this conviction: it was enough to feel it.  I impressed it on my heart, that it might remain there to serve me as aid in the time of trial.我觉得这番话很真实，并从中作出了推断：要是我忘了自己，忘了向来所受的教导，在任何借口，任何理由和任何诱惑之下重蹈这些可怜姑娘的复辙，有朝一日，他会以此刻回忆起来时亵渎她们的同样心情，来对待我。我并没有把这个想法说出来，感受到了也就够了。我把它印在心坎里，让它在考验的时刻对我有所帮助。“Now, Jane, why don’t you say ‘Well, sir?’  I have not done.  You are looking grave.  You disapprove of me still, I see.  But let me come to the point.  Last January, rid of all mistresses—in a harsh, bitter frame of mind, the result of a useless, roving, lonely life—corroded with disappointment, sourly disposed against all men, and especially against all womankind (for I began to regard the notion of an intellectual, faithful, loving woman as a mere dream), recalled by business, I came back to England.“噢，简，你干嘛不说‘那么，先生？’我还没有说完呢。你神情严肃，看得出来不同意我的看法。不过让我直说吧。去年一月，我打发走了所有的情妇一—当时的心情既冷酷又苦恼，那是毫无意义、飘忽不定的孤独生活的苦果——我心灰意冷，便怒悻悻地反对一切男性，尤其是反对一切女性（因为，我开始认为理智、忠实、可爱的女人不过是一种梦想），因为事务需要，我回到了英格兰。“On a frosty winter afternoon, I rode in sight of Thornfield Hall.  Abhorred spot!  I expected no peace—no pleasure there.  On a stile in Hay Lane I saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself.  I passed it as negligently as I did the pollard willow opposite to it: I had no presentiment of what it would be to me; no inward warning that the arbitress of my life—my genius for good or evil—waited there in humble guise.  I did not know it, even when, on the occasion of Mesrour’s accident, it came up and gravely offered me help.  Childish and slender creature!  It seemed as if a linnet had hopped to my foot and proposed to bear me on its tiny wing.  I was surly; but the thing would not go: it stood by me with strange perseverance, and looked and spoke with a sort of authority.  I must be aided, and by that hand: and aided I was.“一个有霜冻的冬日下午，我骑在马上看见了桑菲尔德府。多么骇人的地方！在那里我预料没有安宁，没有欢乐。在海巷的阶梯上我看到一个斯斯文文的小东西独个儿坐着。我不经意地在她旁边走过，就像路过对面截去树梢的柳树一样。这小东西与我会有什么关系，我没有预感，也没有内心的感应暗示我。我生活的仲裁人——好歹也是我的守护神一—穿着一身很不起眼的衣服坐在那儿。甚至我的梅斯罗马出了事故，这小东西一本正经上来帮忙时，我也还不知道她呢！一个稚气十足，纤弱苗条的家伙，仿佛一只红雀跳到我脚边，提议用它细小的翅膀背负我。我有些粗暴。但这东西就是不走，站在我旁边，固执得出奇，一付不容违抗的神态和口气。我得有人帮忙，而且是由那双手来帮，结果我是得到了帮助。“When once I had pressed the frail shoulder, something new—a fresh sap and sense—stole into my frame.  It was well I had learnt that this elf must return to me—that it belonged to my house down below—or I could not have felt it pass away from under my hand, and seen it vanish behind the dim hedge, without singular regret.  I heard you come home that night, Jane, though probably you were not aware that I thought of you or watched for you.  The next day I observed you—myself unseen—for half-an-hour, while you played with Adèle in the gallery.  It was a snowy day, I recollect, and you could not go out of doors.  I was in my room; the door was ajar: I could both listen and watch.  Adèle claimed your outward attention for a while; yet I fancied your thoughts were elsewhere: but you were very patient with her, my little Jane; you talked to her and amused her a long time.  When at last she left you, you lapsed at once into deep reverie: you betook yourself slowly to pace the gallery.  Now and then, in passing a casement, you glanced out at the thick-falling snow; you listened to the sobbing wind, and again you paced gently on and dreamed.  I think those day visions were not dark: there was a pleasurable illumination in your eye occasionally, a soft excitement in your aspect, which told of no bitter, bilious, hypochondriac brooding: your look revealed rather the sweet musings of youth when its spirit follows on willing wings the flight of Hope up and on to an ideal heaven.  The voice of Mrs. Fairfax, speaking to a servant in the hall, wakened you: and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself, Janet!  There was much sense in your smile: it was very shrewd, and seemed to make light of your own abstraction.  It seemed to say—‘My fine visions are all very well, but I must not forget they are absolutely unreal.  I have a rosy sky and a green flowery Eden in my brain; but without, I am perfectly aware, lies at my feet a rough tract to travel, and around me gather black tempests to encounter.’  You ran downstairs and demanded of Mrs. Fairfax some occupation: the weekly house accounts to make up, or something of that sort, I think it was.  I was vexed with you for getting out of my sight.“我一压那娇柔的肩膀，某种新的东西——新鲜的活力和意识一—悄悄地流进了我的躯体。好在我已知道这个小精灵得回到我身边——它住在我底下的房子里。要不然我会不无遗憾地感到它从我的手底下溜走，消失在暗淡的树篱中。我听到了你那天晚上回家来，简，尽管你未必知道我思念你，观察着你。第二天你与阿黛勒在走廊上玩的时候，我观察了你半个小时（没有暴露我自己）。我记得这是个下雪天，你们不能到户外去。我呆在自己的房间里，半开着门。我可以听，也可以看。一时阿黛勒占据了你外在注意力，但我想象你的心思在别的地方。但你对她非常耐心，我的小简。你同她交谈，逗了她很久，最后她离开你时，你又立刻陷入了沉思。你开始在走廊上慢慢地踱起步来，不时经过窗前，你往外眺望着纷纷扬扬的雪，倾听着似泣似诉的风，你又再次轻轻地走着，沉入了遐想。我想白天的光线并不很暗，你的眼睛里时而映现出一种愉悦的光，面容里露出柔和的兴奋，表明这不是一种痛苦、暴躁、疑病症式的沉思。你的目光中透出一种青春的甜蜜思索，心甘情愿的翅膀载着青春的心灵，追逐着希望的踪影，不断登高，飞向理想的天国。费尔法克斯太太在大厅里同仆人说话的声音把你惊醒了，而你奇怪地独自笑着，也笑你自己，珍妮特。你的微笑意味深长，十分敏锐，也似乎是笑你自己走了神，它仿佛说，‘我所看到的美好景象尽管不错，但我决不能忘记这是绝对虚假的。在我的脑海里，有一个玫瑰式的天空，一个红花绿草的伊甸园；但在外面，我完全意识到，脚下有一条坎坷的路要走，有着渐渐聚拢的黑色风暴要面对。’你跑到了楼下，向费尔法克斯太太要些事儿干干，我想是清算一周的家庭帐目，或者诸如此类的事情。你跑出了我的视线之外，我对你很生气。”“Impatiently I waited for evening, when I might summon you to my presence.  An unusual—to me—a perfectly new character I suspected was yours: I desired to search it deeper and know it better.  You entered the room with a look and air at once shy and independent: you were quaintly dressed—much as you are now.  I made you talk: ere long I found you full of strange contrasts.  Your garb and manner were restricted by rule; your air was often diffident, and altogether that of one refined by nature, but absolutely unused to society, and a good deal afraid of making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder; yet when addressed, you lifted a keen, a daring, and a glowing eye to your interlocutor’s face: there was penetration and power in each glance you gave; when plied by close questions, you found ready and round answers.  Very soon you seemed to get used to me: I believe you felt the existence of sympathy between you and your grim and cross master, Jane; for it was astonishing to see how quickly a certain pleasant ease tranquillised your manner: snarl as I would, you showed no surprise, fear, annoyance, or displeasure at my moroseness; you watched me, and now and then smiled at me with a simple yet sagacious grace I cannot describe.  I was at once content and stimulated with what I saw: I liked what I had seen, and wished to see more.  Yet, for a long time, I treated you distantly, and sought your company rarely.  I was an intellectual epicure, and wished to prolong the gratification of making this novel and piquant acquaintance: besides, I was for a while troubled with a haunting fear that if I handled the flower freely its bloom would fade—the sweet charm of freshness would leave it.  I did not then know that it was no transitory blossom, but rather the radiant resemblance of one, cut in an indestructible gem.  Moreover, I wished to see whether you would seek me if I shunned you—but you did not; you kept in the schoolroom as still as your own desk and easel; if by chance I met you, you passed me as soon, and with as little token of recognition, as was consistent with respect.  Your habitual expression in those days, Jane, was a thoughtful look; not despondent, for you were not sickly; but not buoyant, for you had little hope, and no actual pleasure.  I wondered what you thought of me, or if you ever thought of me, and resolved to find this out.“我急不可耐地等着晚间的到来，这样可以把你召到我面前。我怀疑，你有一种不同寻常的性格，对我来说，一种全新的性格，我很想对它进行深层的探索，了解得更透彻。你进了房间，目光与神态既腼腆又很有主见。你穿着古怪——很像你现在的样子。我使你开了腔，不久我就发现你身上充满奇怪的反差。你的服装和举止受着清规戒律的约束；你的神态往往很羞涩，完全是那种天性高雅绝不适应社交的人，很害怕自己因为某种失礼和错误而出丑。但一旦同你交谈，你向对方的脸庞投去锐利、大胆、闪亮的目光。你的每个眼神里都有一种穿透力。问你思路严密的问题，你应对如流。你似乎很快对我习惯了—一我相信你觉得在你与你的严厉、暴躁的主人之间，有引起共鸣的地方，因为我惊异地看到，一种愉快的自在感，立刻使你的举止变得平静了。尽管我暴跳如雷，你并没有对我的乖僻露出惊奇、胆怯、苦恼或不快。你观察着我，不时朝我笑笑，那笑容中带着一种难以形容的朴实和聪明伶俐的神态。我立刻对我所目睹的感到满意和兴奋。我喜欢己经见到的东西，而且希望见得更多。然而很长一段时间我跟你很疏远，很少找你作伴。我是一个精神享乐主义者，希望与这位活泼的新朋友相识而带来的喜悦能经久不衰。此外，我一时为—种拂之不去的忧虑所困扰，担心要是我随意摆弄这花朵，它就会凋谢一—新鲜诱人的魅力便会消失。那时我并不知道，这不是一朵朝开夕落的花朵，而是一种灿烂绚丽不可摧毁的宝石花。此外，我想看一看，要是我躲着你，你是否会来找我——但你没有，你呆在书房里，像你的桌子和画板那样纹丝不动。要是我偶而碰到你，你会很快走过，只不过出于礼貌稍稍打个招呼。简，在那些日子里，若有所思的神态是你习惯的表情：不是低沉沮丧，因为你没有病态；但也不是轻松活泼，因为你没有什么希望和真正的快乐。我不知道你是怎么想我的一—或者从来是否想过我。“I resumed my notice of you.  There was something glad in your glance, and genial in your manner, when you conversed: I saw you had a social heart; it was the silent schoolroom—it was the tedium of your life—that made you mournful.  I permitted myself the delight of being kind to you; kindness stirred emotion soon: your face became soft in expression, your tones gentle; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent.  I used to enjoy a chance meeting with you, Jane, at this time: there was a curious hesitation in your manner: you glanced at me with a slight trouble—a hovering doubt: you did not know what my caprice might be—whether I was going to play the master and be stern, or the friend and be benignant.  I was now too fond of you often to simulate the first whim; and, when I stretched my hand out cordially, such bloom and light and bliss rose to your young, wistful features, I had much ado often to avoid straining you then and there to my heart.”为了发现这点，我继续注意你。你交谈时眼神中透出某种快意，举止中隐含着亲切。我看到你内心是喜欢与人交往的，但清静的教室——乏味的生活弄得你情绪低落。我很乐意和气待你，而善意很快激起了情绪，你的面部表情变得温柔，你的声调变得亲切。我很喜欢我的名字从你的嘴里吐出来，带着感激和快乐的声调。那时候我常常喜欢在不经意中碰到你，简，而你显出犹豫不决的样子。你略带困惑看了我一眼，那是一种徘徊不去的疑虑。你不知道我是否会反复无常一—究竟会摆出主人的架子，一面孔的威严，还是会做个朋友，慈祥和蔼。这时我已经太喜欢你了，不忍激起第一种念头。我真诚地伸出手时，清新、光明、幸福的表情便浮现在你年轻而充满渴望的脸上，我便总是犹疑不定，免得自己当场就把你拉进怀抱。”“Don’t talk any more of those days, sir,” I interrupted, furtively dashing away some tears from my eyes; his language was torture to me; for I knew what I must do—and do soon—and all these reminiscences, and these revelations of his feelings only made my work more difficult.“别再谈那些日子了，先生，”我打断了他，偷偷地抹去了几滴眼泪。他的话对我无异于折磨，因为我知道自己该做什么—一并且马上做——所有这一切回忆和他情感的袒露只会使我更加为难。“No, Jane,” he returned: “what necessity is there to dwell on the Past, when the Present is so much surer—the Future so much brighter?”“不，简，”他回答说，“当现在已那么肯定一—未来又那么光明的时候，谈论过去又有什么必要呢？”I shuddered to hear the infatuated assertion.我一听这番神魂颠倒的话，打了个寒噤。“You see now how the case stands—do you not?” he continued.  “After a youth and manhood passed half in unutterable misery and half in dreary solitude, I have for the first time found what I can truly love—I have found you.  You are my sympathy—my better self—my good angel.  I am bound to you with a strong attachment.  I think you good, gifted, lovely: a fervent, a solemn passion is conceived in my heart; it leans to you, draws you to my centre and spring of life, wraps my existence about you, and, kindling in pure, powerful flame, fuses you and me in one.“你明白是怎么回事一—是不是？”他继续说，“在一半是难以言传的痛苦和一半是意气消沉的孤独中，度过了我的少年和成年时期后，我第一次发现我可以真正爱的东西—一我找到了你。你是我的共鸣体一—我的更好的一半——我的好天使—一我与你紧紧地依恋着。我认为你很出色，有天份，很可爱，一种热烈而庄严的激情隐藏在我内心。这种激情向着你——并且燃起纯洁、猛烈的火焰，把你我熔合在一起。“It was because I felt and knew this, that I resolved to marry you.  To tell me that I had already a wife is empty mockery: you know now that I had but a hideous demon.  I was wrong to attempt to deceive you; but I feared a stubbornness that exists in your character.  I feared early instilled prejudice: I wanted to have you safe before hazarding confidences.  This was cowardly: I should have appealed to your nobleness and magnanimity at first, as I do now—opened to you plainly my life of agony—described to you my hunger and thirst after a higher and worthier existence—shown to you, not my resolution (that word is weak), but my resistless bent to love faithfully and well, where I am faithfully and well loved in return.  Then I should have asked you to accept my pledge of fidelity and to give me yours.  Jane—give it me now.”“正是因为我感觉到而且明白这一点，我决计娶你。说我已有一个妻子，那是空洞的嘲弄。现在你知道我只有一个可怕的魔鬼。我想欺骗你，这是我的不是。但我担心你性格中执拗的一面。我担心早就种下的偏见，我想在稳操胜券以后，再冒吐露真情的危险。这其实是怯懦，我应当像现在这样，先求助于你的高尚心灵和宽宏大度——直截了当地向你倾吐生活中的苦恼一—向你描述我对更高级和更有价值的生活的渴求——不是向你表示决心（这字眼太弱了）而是不可抵御的爱意，也即是在被别人忠贞不二地深爱着的时候，我也那么去爱别人，随后我应当要求你接受我忠贞的誓言，也要求你发誓：简一—现在就对我说吧。”A pause.一阵静默。“Why are you silent, Jane?”“你干嘛不吱声，简？”I was experiencing an ordeal: a hand of fiery iron grasped my vitals.  Terrible moment: full of struggle, blackness, burning!  Not a human being that ever lived could wish to be loved better than I was loved; and him who thus loved me I absolutely worshipped: and I must renounce love and idol.  One drear word comprised my intolerable duty—“Depart!”我经历着一次煎熬。一双铁铸火燎的手，紧紧抓住了我的命脉。一个可怕的时刻，充满着搏击、黑暗和燃烧！人世间再也没有人能期望像我这样被爱了。也没有人像我这样拜倒在爱我的人的脚下，我必须摒弃爱情和偶像。一个凄凉的字眼就表达了我不可忍受的责任一—“走！”“Jane, you understand what I want of you?  Just this promise—‘I will be yours, Mr. Rochester.’”“简，你明白我期待你干什么，就只要这么答应一下：‘我将属于你，罗切斯特先生。’”“Mr. Rochester, I will not be yours.”“罗切斯特先生，我将不属于你。”Another long silence.又一次长时间的沉默。“Jane!” recommenced he, with a gentleness that broke me down with grief, and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror—for this still voice was the pant of a lion rising—“Jane, do you mean to go one way in the world, and to let me go another?”“简！”他又开口了，嗓音里透出的温存使我难过得心碎，也使我怀着不祥的恐怖，变得石头般冰冷——因为这种平静的声音是狮子起来时的喘息—一“简，你的意思是，在世上你走你的路，我走我的路？”“I do.”“我是这个意思。”“Jane” (bending towards and embracing me), “do you mean it now?”“简，”（俯下身子拥抱我）“你这会儿还是这个意思吗，”“I do.”“是的，”“And now?” softly kissing my forehead and cheek.“现在还这样？”他轻轻地吻了吻我的额头和脸颊。“I do,” extricating myself from restraint rapidly and completely.“是的，”我飞快地彻底挣脱了他。“Oh, Jane, this is bitter!  This—this is wicked.  It would not be wicked to love me.”“呵，简，这太狠心了！这—一这很不道德，但爱我并不算不道德。”“It would to obey you.”“照你的话办会不道德。”，A wild look raised his brows—crossed his features: he rose; but he forebore yet.  I laid my hand on the back of a chair for support: I shook, I feared—but I resolved.一个狂野的神色使他双眉直竖——那神色掠过他的脸庞。他站了起来，但又忍下了。我把手靠在椅背上撑住自己，我颤抖，我害怕一—但我很镇定。“One instant, Jane.  Give one glance to my horrible life when you are gone.  All happiness will be torn away with you.  What then is left?  For a wife I have but the maniac upstairs: as well might you refer me to some corpse in yonder churchyard.  What shall I do, Jane?  Where turn for a companion and for some hope?”“等一下，简。你走之前，再看一眼我那可怕的生活。你一走，一切幸福也就被夺走了。然后留下了什么呢？作为妻子，我只有一个疯子在楼上，你还不如把我同墓地里的死尸扯在一起。我该怎么办，简？哪儿去找伙伴，哪儿还能寻觅希望？”“Do as I do: trust in God and yourself.  Believe in heaven.  Hope to meet again there.”“像我一样办吧，相信上帝和你自己，相信上天，希望在那儿再次见到你。”“Then you will not yield?”“那你不改变主意了？”“No.”“不。”“Then you condemn me to live wretched and to die accursed?”  His voice rose.“那你判我活着受罪，死了挨骂吗？”他提高了嗓门。“I advise you to live sinless, and I wish you to die tranquil.”“我劝你活得清白，希望你死得安宁。”“Then you snatch love and innocence from me?  You fling me back on lust for a passion—vice for an occupation?”“那你就把爱情和纯洁从我这里夺走了？你把我推回老路，拿肉欲当爱情——以作恶为职业？”“Mr. Rochester, I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it for myself.  We were born to strive and endure—you as well as I: do so.  You will forget me before I forget you.”“罗切斯特先生，我没有把这种命运强加给你，就像我自己不会把它当作我的命运一样。我们生来就是苦难和忍受的，你我都一样，就这么去做吧。我还没有忘掉，你就会先忘掉我。”“You make me a liar by such language: you sully my honour.  I declared I could not change: you tell me to my face I shall change soon.  And what a distortion in your judgment, what a perversity in your ideas, is proved by your conduct!  Is it better to drive a fellow-creature to despair than to transgress a mere human law, no man being injured by the breach? for you have neither relatives nor acquaintances whom you need fear to offend by living with me?”“你说这样的话是要把我当成一个骗子：你败坏了我的名誉。我宣布我不会变心，而你却当着我的面说我很快就会变心。你的行为证明，你的判断存在着多大的歪曲：你的观念又是何等的反常！难道仅仅违背人类的一个法律不是比把你的同类推向绝望更好吗？一一任何人都不会因为违背法律而受到伤害，因为你既无亲戚又无熟人，不必害怕由于同我生活而得罪他们。”This was true: and while he spoke my very conscience and reason turned traitors against me, and charged me with crime in resisting him.  They spoke almost as loud as Feeling: and that clamoured wildly.  “Oh, comply!” it said.  “Think of his misery; think of his danger—look at his state when left alone; remember his headlong nature; consider the recklessness following on despair—soothe him; save him; love him; tell him you love him and will be his.  Who in the world cares for you? or who will be injured by what you do?”这倒是真的。他说话时我的良心和理智都背叛了我，指控我犯了同他对抗的罪。两者似乎像感情一样大叫大嚷。感情疯狂地叫喊着。“呵，同意吧！”它说。“想想他的痛苦，考虑考虑他的危险——看看他一个人被丢下时的样子吧，记住他轻率冒险的本性，想一想伴随绝望而来的鲁莽吧，——安慰他，拯救他，爱他。告诉他你爱他，而且是属于他的。世上有谁来关心你？你的所作所为会伤着谁呢？”Still indomitable was the reply—“I care for myself.  The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself.  I will keep the law given by God; sanctioned by man.  I will hold to the principles received by me when I was sane, and not mad—as I am now.  Laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation: they are for such moments as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour; stringent are they; inviolate they shall be.  If at my individual convenience I might break them, what would be their worth?  They have a worth—so I have always believed; and if I cannot believe it now, it is because I am insane—quite insane: with my veins running fire, and my heart beating faster than I can count its throbs.  Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations, are all I have at this hour to stand by: there I plant my foot.”但是那回答依然是不可改变的一一“我关心我自己，愈是孤单，愈是没有朋友，愈是无助，那我就愈是自尊。我会遵守上帝创造、由人批准的法规，我会坚持我清醒时，而不是像现在这样发疯时服从的准则。法规和准则不光是为了没有诱惑的时刻，而是针对现在这样，肉体和灵魂起来抗拒它的严厉和苛刻的时候。它们再严厉也是不可破坏的。要是出于我个人的方便而加以违背，那它们还有什么价值？它们是有价值的—一我向来是这么相信的。如果我此刻不信，那是因为我疯了——疯得可厉害啦，我的血管里燃烧着火，我的心跳快得难以计数。此刻我所能依靠的是原有的想法和以往的决心：我要巍然不动地站在那里。”I did.  Mr. Rochester, reading my countenance, saw I had done so.  His fury was wrought to the highest: he must yield to it for a moment, whatever followed; he crossed the floor and seized my arm and grasped my waist.  He seemed to devour me with his flaming glance: physically, I felt, at the moment, powerless as stubble exposed to the draught and glow of a furnace: mentally, I still possessed my soul, and with it the certainty of ultimate safety.  The soul, fortunately, has an interpreter—often an unconscious, but still a truthful interpreter—in the eye.  My eye rose to his; and while I looked in his fierce face I gave an involuntary sigh; his gripe was painful, and my over-taxed strength almost exhausted.我这么做了，罗切斯特先生观察着我的脸色，看出我已经这么办了。他的怒气被激到了极点。不管会产生什么后果，他都得发作一会儿。他从房间一头走过来，抓住我胳膊，把我的腰紧紧抱住。他眼睛那么冒火，仿佛要把我吞下去似的。肉体上，这时我无能为力，就像扔在炉中强风和火光里的草根——精神上，我的心灵保持着克制，正因为这样，我对最终的安全很有把握。幸亏灵魂有一个诠释者——常常是位无意识的，却仍是忠实的诠释者——那就是眼睛。我与他目光相对，一面瞪着他那付凶相，一面不由自主地叹了口气。他那么紧握着使我很痛，我由于过分用力而精疲力尽了。“Never,” said he, as he ground his teeth, “never was anything at once so frail and so indomitable.  A mere reed she feels in my hand!”  (And he shook me with the force of his hold.)  “I could bend her with my finger and thumb: and what good would it do if I bent, if I uptore, if I crushed her?  Consider that eye: consider the resolute, wild, free thing looking out of it, defying me, with more than courage—with a stern triumph.  Whatever I do with its cage, I cannot get at it—the savage, beautiful creature!  If I tear, if I rend the slight prison, my outrage will only let the captive loose.  Conqueror I might be of the house; but the inmate would escape to heaven before I could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place.  And it is you, spirit—with will and energy, and virtue and purity—that I want: not alone your brittle frame.  Of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart, if you would: seized against your will, you will elude the grasp like an essence—you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance.  Oh! come, Jane, come!”“从来没有，”他咬牙切齿地说，“从来没有任何东西既那么脆弱，又那么顽强。在我手里她摸上去只不过像根芦苇，（他紧握着手使劲摇我），我可以不费吹灰之力把它弄弯曲，但要是我把它弄弯了，拔起来，碾碎它，那又有什么用？想想那双眼睛，想想从中射出的坚定、狂野、自在的目光，蔑视我，内中隐含的不止是勇气，而是严峻的胜利感。不管我怎么摆弄这笼子，我无法靠拢它——这野蛮、漂亮的家伙，要是我撕坏或者打破这小小的监狱，我的暴行只会让囚徒获得自由。我也许可以成为这所房子的征服者，但我还来不及称自己为泥屋的拥有人，里边的居住者会早就飞到天上去了。而我要的正是你的精神——富有意志、活力、德行和纯洁，而不单是你脆弱的躯体。如果你愿意，你自己可以轻轻地飞来，偎依着我的心坎，而要是违背你的意思死死抓住你，你会像一阵香气那样在我手掌中溜走一—我还没有闻到你就消失了。呵！来吧，简，来吧！”As he said this, he released me from his clutch, and only looked at me.  The look was far worse to resist than the frantic strain: only an idiot, however, would have succumbed now.  I had dared and baffled his fury; I must elude his sorrow: I retired to the door.他一面说，一面松开了紧握的手，只是看着我。这眼神远比发疯似的紧扯难以抗拒。然而现在只有傻瓜才会屈服。我已面对他的怒火，把它挫败了。我得避开他的忧愁，便向门边走去。“You are going, Jane?”“你走了，简？”“I am going, sir.”“我走了，先生。”“You are leaving me?”“你离开我了？”“Yes.”“是的。”“You will not come?  You will not be my comforter, my rescuer?  My deep love, my wild woe, my frantic prayer, are all nothing to you?”“你不来了？你不愿来抚慰我，拯救我？——我深沉的爱，凄楚的悲苦，疯狂的祈求，你都无动于衷？”What unutterable pathos was in his voice!  How hard it was to reiterate firmly, “I am going.”他的嗓音里带着一种多么难以言表的悲哀！要毅然决然重复“我走了”这句话有多难！“Jane!”“简！”“Mr. Rochester!”“罗切斯特先生。”“Withdraw, then,—I consent; but remember, you leave me here in anguish.  Go up to your own room; think over all I have said, and, Jane, cast a glance on my sufferings—think of me.”“那么你就离开吧一—我同意——但记住，你撇下我在这儿痛苦不堪。上你自己的房间去，细细想想我说过的话，而且，简，看上一眼我的痛苦吧一—想想我吧。”He turned away; he threw himself on his face on the sofa.  “Oh, Jane! my hope—my love—my life!” broke in anguish from his lips.  Then came a deep, strong sob.他走开了，一脸扎进了沙发。“呵，简！我的希望——我的爱—一我的生命！”他痛苦地脱口而出，随后响起了深沉而强烈的哭泣声。I had already gained the door; but, reader, I walked back—walked back as determinedly as I had retreated.  I knelt down by him; I turned his face from the cushion to me; I kissed his cheek; I smoothed his hair with my hand.我已经走到了门边，可是读者呀，我走了回来一—像我退出时一样坚决地走了回来。我跪倒在他旁边，我把他的脸从沙发垫转向我，我吻了吻他的脸颊，用手把他的头发撸服贴。“God bless you, my dear master!” I said.  “God keep you from harm and wrong—direct you, solace you—reward you well for your past kindness to me.”“上帝祝福你，我亲爱的主人，”我说。“上帝会保护你免受伤害，免做错事——指引你，安慰你—一好好地报答你过去对我的好意。”“Little Jane’s love would have been my best reward,” he answered; “without it, my heart is broken.  But Jane will give me her love: yes—nobly, generously.”“小简的爱将是我最好的酬报，”他回答说：“没有它，我会心碎。但简会把她的爱给我，是的——既高尚又慷慨。”Up the blood rushed to his face; forth flashed the fire from his eyes; erect he sprang; he held his arms out; but I evaded the embrace, and at once quitted the room.血一下子涌到了我脸上，他的眼睛射出了火光。他猛地一跳，站直了身子，伸出双臂。但我躲开了拥抱，立刻走出了房间。“Farewell!” was the cry of my heart as I left him.  Despair added, “Farewell for ever!”“别了，”我离开他时我的心儿在叫喊。绝望又使我加了一句话“永别了。”That night I never thought to sleep; but a slumber fell on me as soon as I lay down in bed.  I was transported in thought to the scenes of childhood: I dreamt I lay in the red-room at Gateshead; that the night was dark, and my mind impressed with strange fears.  The light that long ago had struck me into syncope, recalled in this vision, seemed glidingly to mount the wall, and tremblingly to pause in the centre of the obscured ceiling.  I lifted up my head to look: the roof resolved to clouds, high and dim; the gleam was such as the moon imparts to vapours she is about to sever.  I watched her come—watched with the strangest anticipation; as though some word of doom were to be written on her disk.  She broke forth as never moon yet burst from cloud: a hand first penetrated the sable folds and waved them away; then, not a moon, but a white human form shone in the azure, inclining a glorious brow earthward.  It gazed and gazed on me.  It spoke to my spirit: immeasurably distant was the tone, yet so near, it whispered in my heart—那天晚上我绝没有想到要睡，但我一躺到床上便睡着了。我在想象中又回到了孩提时代的情景。我梦见自己躺在盖茨黑德的红房子里，夜很黑，我的脑子里印着奇奇怪怪的恐惧。很久以前弄得我昏厥的光，又出现在这情景中，似乎溜上了墙，抖动着停在模糊的天花板中间。我抬头去看，只见屋顶已化解成了云彩，又高又暗。那光线像月亮冲破雾气时照在浓雾上的光。我看着月亮过来——带着奇怪的期待注视着，仿佛某种判决词将要刻写在圆圆的脸上。她从云层中冲了出来，从来没有什么月亮像她那么穿云破雾的。一只手伸进了她黑色的皱搁，把它挥走。随后碧空中出现了一个白色的人影，而不是月亮了，那人光芒四射的额头倾向东方，盯着我看了又看，并对我的灵魂说起话来，声音既远在天边，又近在咫尺。它在我耳朵里悄声说：“My daughter, flee temptation.”“我的女儿，逃离诱惑吧！”“Mother, I will.”“母亲，我会的。”So I answered after I had waked from the trance-like dream.  It was yet night, but July nights are short: soon after midnight, dawn comes.  “It cannot be too early to commence the task I have to fulfil,” thought I.  I rose: I was dressed; for I had taken off nothing but my shoes.  I knew where to find in my drawers some linen, a locket, a ring.  In seeking these articles, I encountered the beads of a pearl necklace Mr. Rochester had forced me to accept a few days ago.  I left that; it was not mine: it was the visionary bride’s who had melted in air.  The other articles I made up in a parcel; my purse, containing twenty shillings (it was all I had), I put in my pocket: I tied on my straw bonnet, pinned my shawl, took the parcel and my slippers, which I would not put on yet, and stole from my room.从恍恍惚惚的睡梦中醒来后我作出了回答。时候依然还是夜间，但七月的夜很短，午夜过后不久，黎明便到来了。“我怎么着手该做的工作都不会嫌早的，”我想。我从床上爬起来，身上穿着衣服，因为除了鞋子我什么也没脱。我知道该在抽屉的哪个角落找到内衣，一个挂件和一只戒指。在找寻这些东西时，我看到了罗切斯特先生几天前硬要我收下的一串珍珠项链。我把它留了下来，这不是我的，却属于那位已幻化的梦境中的新娘。我把其余的东西打进一个包裹里。钱包里还有二十先令（我的全部家产），我把它放进了口袋。我系好草帽，别上披肩，，拿了包裹和那双没有穿上的拖鞋，悄悄地出了房间。“Farewell, kind Mrs. Fairfax!” I whispered, as I glided past her door.  “Farewell, my darling Adèle!” I said, as I glanced towards the nursery.  No thought could be admitted of entering to embrace her.  I had to deceive a fine ear: for aught I knew it might now be listening.“再见了，善良的费尔法克斯太太！”我溜过她门口时悄声说。“再见了，我可爱的阿黛勒：”我向育儿室瞥了一眼说。已不允许我有进去拥抱她—下的念头了。我得骗过那双很尖的耳朵、也许此刻正在侧耳细听呢。I would have got past Mr. Rochester’s chamber without a pause; but my heart momentarily stopping its beat at that threshold, my foot was forced to stop also.  No sleep was there: the inmate was walking restlessly from wall to wall; and again and again he sighed while I listened.  There was a heaven—a temporary heaven—in this room for me, if I chose: I had but to go in and to say—我本打算停也不停就走过罗切斯特先生的房间，但到了他门口，我的心便暂时停止了跳动，我的脚也被迫止步了。那里没有睡意，房中人不安地在墙内打转，我听见他一次又一次叹息着。要是我愿意，房间里有一个我的天堂一—暂时的天堂，我只要跨进门去说：“Mr. Rochester, I will love you and live with you through life till death,” and a fount of rapture would spring to my lips.  I thought of this.“罗切斯特先生，我会生生死死爱你，同你相伴，”喜悦的泉水会涌向我嘴边，我想到了这情景。That kind master, who could not sleep now, was waiting with impatience for day.  He would send for me in the morning; I should be gone.  He would have me sought for: vainly.  He would feel himself forsaken; his love rejected: he would suffer; perhaps grow desperate.  I thought of this too.  My hand moved towards the lock: I caught it back, and glided on.那位善良的主人，此刻难以成眠，不耐烦地等待着破晓。他会在早上把我叫去，我却已经走了，他会派人找我，而白费工夫。他会觉得自己被抛弃，爱被拒绝了，他会痛苦，也许会变得绝望。我也想到了这—层，我的手伸向门锁，但又缩了回来，仍旧悄悄地往前走去。Drearily I wound my way downstairs: I knew what I had to do, and I did it mechanically.  I sought the key of the side-door in the kitchen; I sought, too, a phial of oil and a feather; I oiled the key and the lock.  I got some water, I got some bread: for perhaps I should have to walk far; and my strength, sorely shaken of late, must not break down.  All this I did without one sound.  I opened the door, passed out, shut it softly.  Dim dawn glimmered in the yard.  The great gates were closed and locked; but a wicket in one of them was only latched.  Through that I departed: it, too, I shut; and now I was out of Thornfield.我忧郁地走下弯曲曲的楼梯，知道该做什么，并机械地去做了。我找到了厨房边门的钥匙，还找了一小瓶油和一根羽毛，把钥匙和锁都抹上油。我也弄一点水和一些面包，因为也许得长途跋涉，我的体力最近已大伤元气，但千万不能倒下，我没有一丝声响做完了这一切，开了门，走了出去，轻轻地把它关上，黎明在院子里洒下了暗淡的光。大门紧闭着上了锁，但一扇边门只上了门栓。我从这扇门走了出去，随手又把它关上，现在我出了桑菲尔德。A mile off, beyond the fields, lay a road which stretched in the contrary direction to Millcote; a road I had never travelled, but often noticed, and wondered where it led: thither I bent my steps.  No reflection was to be allowed now: not one glance was to be cast back; not even one forward.  Not one thought was to be given either to the past or the future.  The first was a page so heavenly sweet—so deadly sad—that to read one line of it would dissolve my courage and break down my energy.  The last was an awful blank: something like the world when the deluge was gone by.一英里外田野的那边有一条路，伸向与米尔科特相反的方向。这条路我尽管常常看到，但从来没有走过，不知道它通向哪里。我信步朝那个方向走去。此刻不允许忆旧了，不允许往后看上一眼，甚至也不得往前看一眼。不能回想过去，也不能瞻望将来。过去是一页书，那么无比美妙——又是那么极度悲哀——读上一行就会打消我的勇气，摧毁我的精力。而未来是一个可怕的空白，仿佛洪水退去后的世界。I skirted fields, and hedges, and lanes till after sunrise.  I believe it was a lovely summer morning: I know my shoes, which I had put on when I left the house, were soon wet with dew.  But I looked neither to rising sun, nor smiling sky, nor wakening nature.  He who is taken out to pass through a fair scene to the scaffold, thinks not of the flowers that smile on his road, but of the block and axe-edge; of the disseverment of bone and vein; of the grave gaping at the end: and I thought of drear flight and homeless wandering—and oh! with agony I thought of what I left.  I could not help it.  I thought of him now—in his room—watching the sunrise; hoping I should soon come to say I would stay with him and be his.  I longed to be his; I panted to return: it was not too late; I could yet spare him the bitter pang of bereavement.  As yet my flight, I was sure, was undiscovered.  I could go back and be his comforter—his pride; his redeemer from misery, perhaps from ruin.  Oh, that fear of his self-abandonment—far worse than my abandonment—how it goaded me!  It was a barbed arrow-head in my breast; it tore me when I tried to extract it; it sickened me when remembrance thrust it farther in.  Birds began singing in brake and copse: birds were faithful to their mates; birds were emblems of love.  What was I?  In the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle, I abhorred myself.  I had no solace from self-approbation: none even from self-respect.  I had injured—wounded—left my master.  I was hateful in my own eyes.  Still I could not turn, nor retrace one step.  God must have led me on.  As to my own will or conscience, impassioned grief had trampled one and stifled the other.  I was weeping wildly as I walked along my solitary way: fast, fast I went like one delirious.  A weakness, beginning inwardly, extending to the limbs, seized me, and I fell: I lay on the ground some minutes, pressing my face to the wet turf.  I had some fear—or hope—that here I should die: but I was soon up; crawling forwards on my hands and knees, and then again raised to my feet—as eager and as determined as ever to reach the road.我沿着田野、篱笆和小路走着，直到太阳升起。我想那是个可爱的夏日清晨，我知道离家时穿的鞋子已很快被露水打湿。但我既没看初升的太阳，微笑的天空，也没看苏醒的大自然。被带往断头台，路见漂亮景色的人，不会有心思去想路上朝他微笑的花朵，而只是想到行刑时的木砧和斧头的利刃，想到身首的分离想到最终张着大口的墓穴。我想到了令人丧气的逃跑和无家可归的流浪——呵，想起我离开的一切多么令人痛苦！而我又无可奈何。此刻我想起了他——在他的房间里——看着日出，希望我马上会去说，我愿意与他呆着，愿意属于他。我渴望属于他，渴望回去，现在还不算太晚。我能免除他失我的剧痛。而且可以肯定，我的逃跑还没有被发现。我可以回去，成为他的安慰者——他的骄傲，他的拯救者，免除他的悲苦，也许还有毁灭。呵，我担心他自暴自弃——比我自己的要担心的多——这多么强烈地刺激着我！这是插入我胸膛带倒钩的箭头，我想把它拔出来，它却撕裂着我，而记忆进一步将它往里推去。我疼痛难忍。小鸟在矮树丛和灌木林中开始歌唱。鸟儿忠于它们的伙伴，是爱的标志。而我又是什么呢？在内心的疼痛和狂热地恪守原则之中，我讨厌我自己。我没有从自责中找到安慰，甚至连自尊中也找不到它。我已经损害——伤害——离开了我的主人。在我自个儿眼中我也是可憎的。但我不能回去，甚至后退一步。上帝得继续领我向前。至于我自己的意志或良心，充满激情的忧伤已经把一个扼杀，使另一个窒息。我一面在路上孤独地走着，一面嚎啕大哭，越走越快，就像发了狂。一种虚弱从内心开始扩向四肢，攫住了我，我摔了一交。我在地上躺了一会，把脸埋在潮湿的草地上，我有些担心——或者说是希望——我会死在这儿。但我马上就起来了，先是四脚四手往前爬了一阵，随后再次站了起来——像以往那么急切和坚决地走到了大路上。When I got there, I was forced to sit to rest me under the hedge; and while I sat, I heard wheels, and saw a coach come on.  I stood up and lifted my hand; it stopped.  I asked where it was going: the driver named a place a long way off, and where I was sure Mr. Rochester had no connections.  I asked for what sum he would take me there; he said thirty shillings; I answered I had but twenty; well, he would try to make it do.  He further gave me leave to get into the inside, as the vehicle was empty: I entered, was shut in, and it rolled on its way.到了那里，我不得不坐到树篱下歇口气。正坐着，我听见了车轮声，看到一辆公共马车向我驶来。我站起来招了招手，它停了下来。我问车子开往哪里，赶车人说了一个离这儿很远的地名，我确信罗切斯特先生跟那里没有联系。我问出多少钱才肯把我送往那里，他说三十先令。我回答只有二十，好吧，他说勉强算数了。因为车是空的，他又允许我坐在里边。我走进去，关上门，车子便滚滚向前了。Gentle reader, may you never feel what I then felt!  May your eyes never shed such stormy, scalding, heart-wrung tears as poured from mine.  May you never appeal to Heaven in prayers so hopeless and so agonised as in that hour left my lips; for never may you, like me, dread to be the instrument of evil to what you wholly love.好心的读者呀，但愿你从来没有感受到过我当时的心情！但愿你两眼从没像我那样泪如雨下，淌了那么多灼热揪心的眼泪。愿你从来不必像我当时那么倾吐绝望而痛苦的祈祷，向上天求助。愿你永远不必像我这样担心会给你全身心爱着的人带来灾祸。CHAPTER XXVIII第二十八章Two days are passed.  It is a summer evening; the coachman has set me down at a place called Whitcross; he could take me no farther for the sum I had given, and I was not possessed of another shilling in the world.  The coach is a mile off by this time; I am alone.  At this moment I discover that I forgot to take my parcel out of the pocket of the coach, where I had placed it for safety; there it remains, there it must remain; and now, I am absolutely destitute.两天过去了。夏天的一个傍晚，马车夫让我在一个叫作惠特克劳斯的地方下了车，凭我给的那点钱他已无法再把我往前拉，而在这个世上，我连一个先令也拿不出来了。此刻，马车已驶出一英里，撇下我孤单一人。这时我才发现忘了从马车贮物箱里把包裹拿出来了，我把它放在那儿原本是为了安全，不想就那么留下了，准是留在那儿，而我已经莫名一文了。Whitcross is no town, nor even a hamlet; it is but a stone pillar set up where four roads meet: whitewashed, I suppose, to be more obvious at a distance and in darkness.  Four arms spring from its summit: the nearest town to which these point is, according to the inscription, distant ten miles; the farthest, above twenty.  From the well-known names of these towns I learn in what county I have lighted; a north-midland shire, dusk with moorland, ridged with mountain: this I see.  There are great moors behind and on each hand of me; there are waves of mountains far beyond that deep valley at my feet.  The population here must be thin, and I see no passengers on these roads: they stretch out east, west, north, and south—white, broad, lonely; they are all cut in the moor, and the heather grows deep and wild to their very verge.  Yet a chance traveller might pass by; and I wish no eye to see me now: strangers would wonder what I am doing, lingering here at the sign-post, evidently objectless and lost.  I might be questioned: I could give no answer but what would sound incredible and excite suspicion.  Not a tie holds me to human society at this moment—not a charm or hope calls me where my fellow-creatures are—none that saw me would have a kind thought or a good wish for me.  I have no relative but the universal mother, Nature: I will seek her breast and ask repose.惠特克劳斯不是一个镇，连乡村也不是。它不过是一根石柱，竖在四条路汇合的地方：粉刷得很白，想必是为了在远处和黑夜显得更醒目。柱顶上伸出四个指路标，按上面的标识看，这个交汇点距最近的城镇十英里，离最远的超过二十英里。从这些熟悉的镇名来判断，我明白我在什么郡下了车。这是中部偏北的一个郡，看得出来荒野幽暗，山峦层叠。我身后和左右是大荒原，我脚下深谷的远处，是一片起伏的山林。这里人口必定稀少，因为路上不见行人。一条条道路伸向东南西北——灰白、宽敞、孤零，全都穿过荒原，路边长着茂密的欧石南。但偶尔也有路人经过，现在我却不希望有人看见我那么在路标下徘徊，显得毫无目的，不知所措，陌生人会不知道我在干什么。我也许会受到盘问，除了说些听来不可信和令人生疑的话之外，会无言以对。这一时刻我与人类社会完全失去了联系——没有一丝魅力或是希望把我召唤到我的同类那里，——没有谁见到我会对我表示一丝善意或良好的祝愿。我没有亲人，只有万物之母大自然。我会投向她的怀抱，寻求安息。I struck straight into the heath; I held on to a hollow I saw deeply furrowing the brown moorside; I waded knee-deep in its dark growth; I turned with its turnings, and finding a moss-blackened granite crag in a hidden angle, I sat down under it.  High banks of moor were about me; the crag protected my head: the sky was over that.我径直走进欧石南丛，看见棕色的荒原边上有一条深陷的沟壑，便一直沿着它往前走去，穿行在没膝的青色树丛中，顺着一个个弯道拐了弯，在一个隐蔽的角落找到了一块布满青苔的花岗岩，在底下坐了下来。我周围是荒原高高的边沿，头上有岩石保护着，岩石上面是天空。Some time passed before I felt tranquil even here: I had a vague dread that wild cattle might be near, or that some sportsman or poacher might discover me.  If a gust of wind swept the waste, I looked up, fearing it was the rush of a bull; if a plover whistled, I imagined it a man.  Finding my apprehensions unfounded, however, and calmed by the deep silence that reigned as evening declined at nightfall, I took confidence.  As yet I had not thought; I had only listened, watched, dreaded; now I regained the faculty of reflection.即使在这儿，我也过了好一会才感到宁静。我隐约担心附近会有野兽。或者某个狩猎人或偷猎者会发现我。要是一阵风刮起了荒草，我就会抬起头来，深怕是一头野牛冲将过来了。要是一只行鸟叫了一下，我会想象是一个人的声音。然而我发现自己的担忧不过是捕风捉影，此外黄昏过后夜幕降临时深沉的寂静，使我镇定了下来，我便有了信心。但在这之前我没有思考过，只不过细听着，担心着，观察着。而现在我又恢复了思索的能力。What was I to do?  Where to go?  Oh, intolerable questions, when I could do nothing and go nowhere!—when a long way must yet be measured by my weary, trembling limbs before I could reach human habitation—when cold charity must be entreated before I could get a lodging: reluctant sympathy importuned, almost certain repulse incurred, before my tale could be listened to, or one of my wants relieved!我该怎么办？往哪儿去？呵，当我无法可想，无处可去的时候，那些问题多么难以忍受呀！我得用疲乏颤抖的双腿走完很长的路，才能抵达有人烟的地方——我要恳求发点冷冷的慈悲，才能找到一个投宿之处；我要强求勉为其难的同情，而且多半还会遭人嫌弃，才能使人听听我的经历，满足我的需要。I touched the heath: it was dry, and yet warm with the heat of the summer day.  I looked at the sky; it was pure: a kindly star twinkled just above the chasm ridge.  The dew fell, but with propitious softness; no breeze whispered.  Nature seemed to me benign and good; I thought she loved me, outcast as I was; and I, who from man could anticipate only mistrust, rejection, insult, clung to her with filial fondness.  To-night, at least, I would be her guest, as I was her child: my mother would lodge me without money and without price.  I had one morsel of bread yet: the remnant of a roll I had bought in a town we passed through at noon with a stray penny—my last coin.  I saw ripe bilberries gleaming here and there, like jet beads in the heath: I gathered a handful and ate them with the bread.  My hunger, sharp before, was, if not satisfied, appeased by this hermit’s meal.  I said my evening prayers at its conclusion, and then chose my couch.我碰了碰欧石南，只觉得它很干燥，还带着夏日热力的微温。我看了看天空，只见它清明纯净，一颗星星在山凹上空和蔼地眨眼。露水降下来了，带着慈爱的温柔。没有微风在低语。大自然似乎对我很慈祥，虽然我成了流浪者，但我想她很爱我。我从人那儿只能期待怀疑、嫌弃和侮辱，我要忠心耿耿一往情深地依恋大自然。至少今晚我可以在那儿作客了——因为我是她的孩子，我的母亲会收留我，不要钱，不要付出代价。我还有一口吃剩的面包，那面包是我用一便士零钱——我最后的一枚硬币，从下午路过的小镇买来的。我看到了成熟的越桔——像欧石南丛中的煤玉那样，随处闪着光。我采集了一大把，和着面包吃。我刚才还饥肠辘辘，隐士的食品虽然吃不饱，却足以充饥了。吃完饭我做了夜祷告，随后便择榻就寝了。Beside the crag the heath was very deep: when I lay down my feet were buried in it; rising high on each side, it left only a narrow space for the night-air to invade.  I folded my shawl double, and spread it over me for a coverlet; a low, mossy swell was my pillow.  Thus lodged, I was not, at least—at the commencement of the night, cold.岩石旁边，欧石南长得很高。我一躺下，双脚便陷了进去，两边的石楠高高坚起，只留下很窄的一块地方要受夜气侵袭。我把披肩一摺为二，铺在身上作盖被，一个长满青苔的低矮小墩当了枕头。我就这么住下了，至少在夜刚来临时，是觉得冷的。My rest might have been blissful enough, only a sad heart broke it.  It plained of its gaping wounds, its inward bleeding, its riven chords.  It trembled for Mr. Rochester and his doom; it bemoaned him with bitter pity; it demanded him with ceaseless longing; and, impotent as a bird with both wings broken, it still quivered its shattered pinions in vain attempts to seek him.我的安息本来也许是够幸福的，可惜让一颗悲伤的心破坏了，它泣诉着自己张开的伤口、流血的心扉、折断的心弦。它为罗切斯特先生和他的灭亡而颤抖，因为痛惜而为他恸哭。它带着无休止的渴望召唤他，尽管它像断了双翅的小鸟那样无能为力，却仍旧抖动着断翅，徒劳地找寻着他。Worn out with this torture of thought, I rose to my knees.  Night was come, and her planets were risen: a safe, still night: too serene for the companionship of fear.  We know that God is everywhere; but certainly we feel His presence most when His works are on the grandest scale spread before us; and it is in the unclouded night-sky, where His worlds wheel their silent course, that we read clearest His infinitude, His omnipotence, His omnipresence.  I had risen to my knees to pray for Mr. Rochester.  Looking up, I, with tear-dimmed eyes, saw the mighty Milky-way.  Remembering what it was—what countless systems there swept space like a soft trace of light—I felt the might and strength of God.  Sure was I of His efficiency to save what He had made: convinced I grew that neither earth should perish, nor one of the souls it treasured.  I turned my prayer to thanksgiving: the Source of Life was also the Saviour of spirits.  Mr. Rochester was safe; he was God’s, and by God would he be guarded.  I again nestled to the breast of the hill; and ere long in sleep forgot sorrow.我被这种念头折磨得疲乏不堪，于是便起来跪着。夜已来临，星星已经升起，这是一个平安宁静的夜，平静得与恐怖无缘。我们知道上帝无处不在，但当他的劳作壮丽地展现在我们面前时，我们才最感觉到他的存在。在万里无云的夜空中，在他的宇宙无声地滚滚向前的地方，我们清楚地看到了他的无边无涯，他的万能，他无处不在。我已起来跪着为罗切斯特先生祈祷。抬起头来，我泪眼朦胧地看到了浩瀚的银河。一想起银河是什么——那里有无数的星系像一道微光那么扫过太空——我便感到了上帝的巨大力量。我确信他有能力拯救他的创造物，更相信无论是地球，还是它所珍爱的一个灵魂，都不会毁灭。我把祈祷的内容改为感恩。生命的源泉也是灵魂的救星。罗切斯特先生会安然无恙。他属于上帝，上帝会保护他。我再次投入小山的怀抱，不久，在沉睡中便忘掉了忧愁。But next day, Want came to me pale and bare.  Long after the little birds had left their nests; long after bees had come in the sweet prime of day to gather the heath honey before the dew was dried—when the long morning shadows were curtailed, and the sun filled earth and sky—I got up, and I looked round me.但第二天，苍白赤裸的匮乏，幽灵似地来到我身边。小鸟早已离开他们的巢穴，早露未干蜜蜂便早已在一天的黄金时刻飞到欧石南丛中采蜜，早晨长长的影子缩短了，太阳普照大地和天空——我才起身，朝四周看了看。What a still, hot, perfect day!  What a golden desert this spreading moor!  Everywhere sunshine.  I wished I could live in it and on it.  I saw a lizard run over the crag; I saw a bee busy among the sweet bilberries.  I would fain at the moment have become bee or lizard, that I might have found fitting nutriment, permanent shelter here.  But I was a human being, and had a human being’s wants: I must not linger where there was nothing to supply them.  I rose; I looked back at the bed I had left.  Hopeless of the future, I wished but this—that my Maker had that night thought good to require my soul of me while I slept; and that this weary frame, absolved by death from further conflict with fate, had now but to decay quietly, and mingle in peace with the soil of this wilderness.  Life, however, was yet in my possession, with all its requirements, and pains, and responsibilities.  The burden must be carried; the want provided for; the suffering endured; the responsibility fulfilled.  I set out.一个多么宁静、炎热的好天！一望无际的荒原多像一片金灿灿的沙漠！处处都是阳光。我真希望自己能住在这里，并以此为生。我看见一条蜥蜴爬过岩石，一只蜜蜂在甜蜜的越桔中间忙碌。此刻我愿做蜜蜂或蜥蜴，能在这里找到合适的养料和永久的住处。但我是人，有着人的需求。我可不能逗留在一个无法满足这种需求的地方，我站了起来，回头看了一眼我留下的床铺。我感到前途无望，但愿造物主认为有必要在夜里我熟睡时把我的灵魂要去；但愿我这疲乏的身躯能因为死亡而摆脱同命运的进一步搏斗；但愿它此刻无声无息地腐败，平静地同这荒原的泥土融为一体。然而，我还有生命，还有生命的一切需要、痛苦和责任。包袱还得背着；需要还得满足；痛苦还得忍受；责任还是要尽。于是我出发了。Whitcross regained, I followed a road which led from the sun, now fervent and high.  By no other circumstance had I will to decide my choice.  I walked a long time, and when I thought I had nearly done enough, and might conscientiously yield to the fatigue that almost overpowered me—might relax this forced action, and, sitting down on a stone I saw near, submit resistlessly to the apathy that clogged heart and limb—I heard a bell chime—a church bell.我再次来到惠特克劳斯，这时骄阳高照。我选了一条背阳的路，我已无心根据其他请况来作出选择了。我走了很久，以为自己差不多走得够了，可以心安理得地向几乎把我压垮的疲劳屈服——可以放松一下这种强迫的活动了，于是在我附近看到的一块石头上坐了下来，听任心脏和四肢感到麻木。就在这时我听见钟声响了—一教堂的钟声。I turned in the direction of the sound, and there, amongst the romantic hills, whose changes and aspect I had ceased to note an hour ago, I saw a hamlet and a spire.  All the valley at my right hand was full of pasture-fields, and cornfields, and wood; and a glittering stream ran zig-zag through the varied shades of green, the mellowing grain, the sombre woodland, the clear and sunny lea.  Recalled by the rumbling of wheels to the road before me, I saw a heavily-laden waggon labouring up the hill, and not far beyond were two cows and their drover.  Human life and human labour were near.  I must struggle on: strive to live and bend to toil like the rest.我转向声音传来的方向。在那里，我一小时之前就已不去注意其变幻和外观富有浪漫色彩的山峦之间，我看到了一个村庄和尖顶。我左侧的山谷满眼都是牧地、玉米地和树林。一条闪光的小溪弯弯曲曲地流过深浅各异的绿荫，流过正在成熟的稻谷，暗淡的树林，明净而充满阳光的草地。前面路上传来了隆隆的车轮声，我回过神来，看见一辆重载的大车，吃力地爬上了小山。不远的地方有两头牛和一个牧人。附近就有人在生活和劳作，我得挣扎下去，像别人那样努力去生活和操劳。About two o’clock p.m. I entered the village.  At the bottom of its one street there was a little shop with some cakes of bread in the window.  I coveted a cake of bread.  With that refreshment I could perhaps regain a degree of energy: without it, it would be difficult to proceed.  The wish to have some strength and some vigour returned to me as soon as I was amongst my fellow-beings.  I felt it would be degrading to faint with hunger on the causeway of a hamlet.  Had I nothing about me I could offer in exchange for one of these rolls?  I considered.  I had a small silk handkerchief tied round my throat; I had my gloves.  I could hardly tell how men and women in extremities of destitution proceeded.  I did not know whether either of these articles would be accepted: probably they would not; but I must try.约摸下午两点，我进了村庄。一条街的尽头开着一个小店，窗里放着一些面包。我对一块面包很眼馋。有那样一块点心，我也许还能恢复一点力气，要是没有，再往前走就困难了。一回到我的同类之间，心头便又升起了要恢复精力的愿望。我觉得昏倒在一个小村的大路上很丢脸。难道我身上就连换取几块面包的东西都没有了吗？我想了一想。我有一小块丝绸围巾围在脖子上，还有一双手套。我难以表达贫困潦倒中的男女是怎么度日的。我不知道这两件东西是否会被人接受。可能他们不会要，但我得试一试。I entered the shop: a woman was there.  Seeing a respectably-dressed person, a lady as she supposed, she came forward with civility.  How could she serve me?  I was seized with shame: my tongue would not utter the request I had prepared.  I dared not offer her the half-worn gloves, the creased handkerchief: besides, I felt it would be absurd.  I only begged permission to sit down a moment, as I was tired.  Disappointed in the expectation of a customer, she coolly acceded to my request.  She pointed to a seat; I sank into it.  I felt sorely urged to weep; but conscious how unseasonable such a manifestation would be, I restrained it.  Soon I asked her “if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman in the village?”我走进了店里，里面有一个女人。她见是一位穿著体面的人，猜想是位贵妇，于是便很有礼貌地走上前来。她怎么来照应我呢？我羞愧难当。我的舌头不愿吐出早已想好的要求。我不敢拿出旧了的手套，皱巴巴的围巾。另外，我还觉得这很荒唐。我只求她让我坐一会儿，因为我累了。她没有盼到一位雇客，很是失望，冷冷地答应了我的要求。她指了指一个座位，我一屁股坐了下来。我很想哭，但意识到那种表现会不合情理，便忍住了。我立刻问她“村子里有没有裁缝或者做做一般针线活的女人？”“Yes; two or three.  Quite as many as there was employment for.”“有，有两三个。按活计算也就够多的了。”I reflected.  I was driven to the point now.  I was brought face to face with Necessity.  I stood in the position of one without a resource, without a friend, without a coin.  I must do something.  What?  I must apply somewhere.  Where?我沉思了一下。现在我不得不直说了。我己经面临困境，落到了没有食物，没有朋友，没有一文钱的地步。我得想点办法。什么办法呢？我得上什么地方去求助。上哪个地方呢？“Did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant was wanted?”“你知道附近有谁需要佣人吗？”“Nay; she couldn’t say.”“不，我说不上来。”“What was the chief trade in this place?  What did most of the people do?”“这个地方的主要行业是什么？大多数人是干什么活儿的？”“Some were farm labourers; a good deal worked at Mr. Oliver’s needle-factory, and at the foundry.”“有些是农场工，很多人在奥利弗先生的缝纫厂和翻砂厂工作。”“Did Mr. Oliver employ women?”“奥利弗先生雇用女人吗？”“Nay; it was men’s work.”“不，那是男人的工作。”“And what do the women do?”“那么女人干什么呢，”“I knawn’t,” was the answer.  “我说不上来，”对方回答，“Some does one thing, and some another.  Poor folk mun get on as they can.”“有的干这，有的干那，穷人总得想方设法把日子过下去呀。”She seemed to be tired of my questions: and, indeed, what claim had I to importune her?  A neighbour or two came in; my chair was evidently wanted.  I took leave.她似乎对我的回话不耐烦了，其实我又何必强人所难呢？这时进来了一两位邻居，很明显看中了我的椅子，我起身告辞了。I passed up the street, looking as I went at all the houses to the right hand and to the left; but I could discover no pretext, nor see an inducement to enter any.  I rambled round the hamlet, going sometimes to a little distance and returning again, for an hour or more.  Much exhausted, and suffering greatly now for want of food, I turned aside into a lane and sat down under the hedge.  Ere many minutes had elapsed, I was again on my feet, however, and again searching something—a resource, or at least an informant.  A pretty little house stood at the top of the lane, with a garden before it, exquisitely neat and brilliantly blooming.  I stopped at it.  What business had I to approach the white door or touch the glittering knocker?  In what way could it possibly be the interest of the inhabitants of that dwelling to serve me?  Yet I drew near and knocked.  A mild-looking, cleanly-attired young woman opened the door.  In such a voice as might be expected from a hopeless heart and fainting frame—a voice wretchedly low and faltering—I asked if a servant was wanted here?我沿街走去，一面走一面左顾右盼，打量着所有的房子，但找不到进门的借口或动机。我这么漫无目的地绕着村庄走了一个来小时，有时走远了一些，又折回来。因为没有东西下肚，我筋疲力尽难受极了，于是折进一条小巷，在树篱下坐了下来。可是没过几分钟我又站起来，再去找些什么——食物，或者至少打听到一点消息。小巷的高处有一间漂亮的小房子，房子前有一个精致整洁、繁花盛开的花园，我在花园旁边停了下来，我有什么理由走近白色的门，去敲响闪光的门环呢？房主人又怎么会有兴趣来照应我呢？但我还是走近去敲了门。一位和颜悦色穿著干净的年轻女子开了门。我用一个内心绝望，身怀虚弱的人那种可怜低沉、吞吞吐吐的音调——问她是不是要一个佣人？“No,” said she; “we do not keep a servant.”“不要，”她说“我们不雇佣人。”“Can you tell me where I could get employment of any kind?” I continued.  “I am a stranger, without acquaintance in this place.  I want some work: no matter what.”“你能不能告诉我，哪儿能找到工作吗？”我继续问。“这个地方我很陌生，没有熟人，想找个工作，什么样的都行。”But it was not her business to think for me, or to seek a place for me: besides, in her eyes, how doubtful must have appeared my character, position, tale.  She shook her head, she “was sorry she could give me no information,” and the white door closed, quite gently and civilly: but it shut me out.  If she had held it open a little longer, I believe I should have begged a piece of bread; for I was now brought low.但为我想一个，或者找一个工作不是她的事儿，更何况在她看来，我的为人、我的状况和我说的原委一定显得很可疑，她摇了摇头，“很遗憾我没法给你提供消息，”白色的门尽管轻轻地、很有礼貌地合上了，但毕竟把我关出了门外。要是她让门再开一会儿，我相信准会向她讨点面包，因为现在我已落到十分下贱的地步了。I could not bear to return to the sordid village, where, besides, no prospect of aid was visible.  I should have longed rather to deviate to a wood I saw not far off, which appeared in its thick shade to offer inviting shelter; but I was so sick, so weak, so gnawed with nature’s cravings, instinct kept me roaming round abodes where there was a chance of food.  Solitude would be no solitude—rest no rest—while the vulture, hunger, thus sank beak and talons in my side.我不忍再返回龌龊的庄子，况且那儿也没有希望得到帮助。我本想绕道去一个看得见的不远的林子。那里浓荫盖地，似乎有可能提供诱人的落脚地方。但是我那么病弱，那么为天性的渴求所折磨、本能使我只绕着有机会得到食品的住处转。当饥饿像猛禽—样嘴爪俱下抓住我时、孤独也不成其孤独，歇息也谈不上歇息了。I drew near houses; I left them, and came back again, and again I wandered away: always repelled by the consciousness of having no claim to ask—no right to expect interest in my isolated lot.  Meantime, the afternoon advanced, while I thus wandered about like a lost and starving dog.  In crossing a field, I saw the church spire before me: I hastened towards it.  Near the churchyard, and in the middle of a garden, stood a well-built though small house, which I had no doubt was the parsonage.  I remembered that strangers who arrive at a place where they have no friends, and who want employment, sometimes apply to the clergyman for introduction and aid.  It is the clergyman’s function to help—at least with advice—those who wished to help themselves.  I seemed to have something like a right to seek counsel here.  Renewing then my courage, and gathering my feeble remains of strength, I pushed on.  I reached the house, and knocked at the kitchen-door.  An old woman opened: I asked was this the parsonage?我走近了住家，走开了又回来，回来了又走开。总有被一种意识所击退，觉得没有理由提出要求，没有权利期望别人对我孤独的命运发生兴趣。我像一条迷路的饿狗那么转来转去，一直到了下午，我穿过田野的时候，看到前面的教堂尖顶，便急步朝它走去。靠近教堂院子和一个花园的中间，有一所虽然不大但建造得很好的房子，我确信那是牧师的住所，我想起来，陌生人到了一个无亲无故的地方，想找个工作，有时会去找牧师引荐和帮助。给那些希望自立的人帮忙一—至少是出主意是牧师份内的事儿。我似乎有某种权利上那儿去听主意。于是我鼓起勇气，集中起一点点残留的力气，奋力往前走去。我到了房子跟前，敲了敲厨房的门。一位老妇开了门，我问她这是不是牧师的住所。“Yes.”“是的。”“Was the clergyman in?”“牧师在吗？”“No.”“没有。”“Would he be in soon?”“很快会回来吗？”“No, he was gone from home.”“不，他离开家了。”“To a distance?”“去很远的地方？”“Not so far—happen three mile.  He had been called away by the sudden death of his father: he was at Marsh End now, and would very likely stay there a fortnight longer.”“不太远一—三英里。他因为父亲突然去世被叫走了，眼下住在沼泽居，很可能还要再呆上两周。”“Was there any lady of the house?”“家里有哪位小姐在吗？”“Nay, there was naught but her, and she was housekeeper;” and of her, reader, I could not bear to ask the relief for want of which I was sinking; I could not yet beg; and again I crawled away.“没有，除了我没有别人，而我是管家。”读者呀，我不忍求她帮我摆脱越陷越深的困境，而我又不能乞讨，于是我再次退缩Once more I took off my handkerchief—once more I thought of the cakes of bread in the little shop.  Oh, for but a crust! for but one mouthful to allay the pang of famine!  Instinctively I turned my face again to the village; I found the shop again, and I went in; and though others were there besides the woman I ventured the request—“Would she give me a roll for this handkerchief?”我又取下了围巾—一又想起了小店的面包。呵，就是一片面包屑也好！只要有一口就能减轻饥饿的痛苦，我本能地又把脸转向了村庄，我又看见了那个店，走了进去，尽管除了那女人里面还有其他人，我冒昧地提出了请求“你肯让我用这块围巾换一个面包卷吗？”She looked at me with evident suspicion: “Nay, she never sold stuff i’ that way.”她显然满腹狐疑地看着我，“不，我从来不那么卖东西。”Almost desperate, I asked for half a cake; she again refused.  “How could she tell where I had got the handkerchief?” she said.在几乎走投无路之中，我央求她换半个，她再次拒绝了。“我怎么知道你从什么地方弄来的围巾？”她说。“Would she take my gloves?”“你肯收这双手套吗？”“No! what could she do with them?”“不行，我要它干什么？”Reader, it is not pleasant to dwell on these details.  Some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past; but at this day I can scarcely bear to review the times to which I allude: the moral degradation, blent with the physical suffering, form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on.  I blamed none of those who repulsed me.  I felt it was what was to be expected, and what could not be helped: an ordinary beggar is frequently an object of suspicion; a well-dressed beggar inevitably so.  To be sure, what I begged was employment; but whose business was it to provide me with employment?  Not, certainly, that of persons who saw me then for the first time, and who knew nothing about my character.  And as to the woman who would not take my handkerchief in exchange for her bread, why, she was right, if the offer appeared to her sinister or the exchange unprofitable.  Let me condense now.  I am sick of the subject.读者呀，叙述这些细节是不愉快的。有人说，回首痛苦的往事是一种享受。但就是在今天，我也不忍回顾我提到的那些时日，道德的堕落搀和着肉体的煎熬，构成了我不愿重提的痛苦回忆。我不责备任何一个冷眼待我的人，觉得这尽在意料之中，也是无可避免的。一个普通的乞丐往往是怀疑的对象，而一个穿著体面的乞丐，就必定是这样了。当然，我只恳求工作，但给我活干又是谁的事儿呢？当然不是那些初次见我，对我的为人一无所知的人的事。至于那个女人不肯让我用围巾换面包，那也是难怪的，要是我的提议在她后来居心叵测，或是这桩交换无利可图，那她的做法也是不错的。让我长话短说吧，我讨厌这个话题。A little before dark I passed a farm-house, at the open door of which the farmer was sitting, eating his supper of bread and cheese.  I stopped and said—天快黑的时候，我走过一家农户。农夫坐在敞开着的门口，正用面包和奶酪作晚餐。我站住说：“Will you give me a piece of bread? for I am very hungry.”  He cast on me a glance of surprise; but without answering, he cut a thick slice from his loaf, and gave it to me.  I imagine he did not think I was a beggar, but only an eccentric sort of lady, who had taken a fancy to his brown loaf.  As soon as I was out of sight of his house, I sat down and ate it.“能给我一片面包吗？因为我实在饿得慌。”他惊异地看了我一眼，但二话没说，便切了一厚片面包给我。我估计他并不认为我是个乞丐，而只是一位怪僻的贵妇，看中了他的黑面包了。我一走到望不见他屋子的地方，便坐下吃了起来。I could not hope to get a lodging under a roof, and sought it in the wood I have before alluded to.  But my night was wretched, my rest broken: the ground was damp, the air cold: besides, intruders passed near me more than once, and I had again and again to change my quarters; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me.  Towards morning it rained; the whole of the following day was wet.  Do not ask me, reader, to give a minute account of that day; as before, I sought work; as before, I was repulsed; as before, I starved; but once did food pass my lips.  At the door of a cottage I saw a little girl about to throw a mess of cold porridge into a pig trough.  既然我无法期望在屋檐下借宿，那就让我到前面提到的林子里去过夜吧。但是那晚很糟糕，休息断断续续，地面很潮湿，空气十分寒冷，此外，不止一次地有外人路过，弄得我一次次换地方，没有安全感，也得不到清静。临近早晨天下雨了，第二天下了一整天。读者呀，别要我把那天的情况说个仔细。我像以前一样寻找工作，像以前一样遭到拒绝，像以前一样挨饿。不过有一回食物倒是进了嘴。在一间小茅屋门口，我看见一个小女孩正要把糊糟糟的冷粥倒进猪槽里。“Will you give me that?” I asked.“可以把它给我吗？”我问。She stared at me.  “Mother!” she exclaimed, “there is a woman wants me to give her these porridge.”她瞪着我。“妈妈！”她嚷道，“有个女的要我把粥给她。”“Well lass,” replied a voice within, “give it her if she’s a beggar.  T’ pig doesn’t want it.”“行呵，孩子，”里边的一个声音回答，“要是她是个乞丐，那就给了她吧，猪也不会要吃的。”The girl emptied the stiffened mould into my hand, and I devoured it ravenously.这女孩把结了块的粥倒在我手上，我狼吞虎咽地吃掉了。As the wet twilight deepened, I stopped in a solitary bridle-path, which I had been pursuing an hour or more.湿润的黄昏越来越浓时，我在一条偏僻的马道上走了一个多小时后停了下来。“My strength is quite failing me,” I said in a soliloquy.  “I feel I cannot go much farther.  Shall I be an outcast again this night?  While the rain descends so, must I lay my head on the cold, drenched ground?  I fear I cannot do otherwise: for who will receive me?  But it will be very dreadful, with this feeling of hunger, faintness, chill, and this sense of desolation—this total prostration of hope.  In all likelihood, though, I should die before morning.  And why cannot I reconcile myself to the prospect of death?  Why do I struggle to retain a valueless life?  Because I know, or believe, Mr. Rochester is living: and then, to die of want and cold is a fate to which nature cannot submit passively.  Oh, Providence! sustain me a little longer!  Aid!—direct me!”“我体力不行了，”我自言自语地说。“自己觉得走不了多远了。难道今晚又没有地方投宿？雨下得那么大，难道我又得把头靠在阴冷湿透的地面上吗？我担心自己别无选择了。谁肯接纳我呢？但是带着这种饥饿、昏眩、寒冷、凄楚的感觉—一一种绝望的心情，那着实可怕。不过很可能我捱不到早上就会死去。那么我为什么不能心甘情愿地死掉呢？为什么我还要挣扎来维持没有价值的生命？因为我知道，或是相信，罗切斯特先生还活着，另外，死于饥寒是天性所不能默认的命运。呵，上天呀！再支撑我一会儿！帮助我一—指引我吧！”My glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape.  I saw I had strayed far from the village: it was quite out of sight.  The very cultivation surrounding it had disappeared.  I had, by cross-ways and by-paths, once more drawn near the tract of moorland; and now, only a few fields, almost as wild and unproductive as the heath from which they were scarcely reclaimed, lay between me and the dusky hill.我那呆滞的眼睛徘徊在暗沉沉、雾蒙蒙的山水之间。我发现自己已远离村庄，因为它已在我视线中消失，村子周围的耕地也不见了。我已经穿小径，抄近路再次靠近了一大片荒原。此刻，在我与黑糊糊的小山之间，只有几小片田野，几乎没有很好开垦，和原来的欧石南差不多一样荒芜和贫瘠。“Well, I would rather die yonder than in a street or on a frequented road,” I reflected.  “And far better that crows and ravens—if any ravens there be in these regions—should pick my flesh from my bones, than that they should be prisoned in a workhouse coffin and moulder in a pauper’s grave.”“是呀，与其倒毙街头或死在人来人往的路上，倒不加死到那边去，”我沉思着。“让乌鸦和渡鸦——要是那些地区有渡鸦的话——啄我骨头上的肉比装在贫民院的棺材里和穷光蛋的墓穴中要强。”To the hill, then, I turned.  I reached it.  It remained now only to find a hollow where I could lie down, and feel at least hidden, if not secure.  But all the surface of the waste looked level.  It showed no variation but of tint: green, where rush and moss overgrew the marshes; black, where the dry soil bore only heath.  Dark as it was getting, I could still see these changes, though but as mere alternations of light and shade; for colour had faded with the daylight.随后我折向那座小山，并到了那里。现在就只剩找个能躺下来的地方了，就是并不安全，至少也是隐蔽的。可是荒原的表面看上去都一样平坦，只有色彩上有些差别；灯心草和苔藓茂密生长的湿地呈青色；而只长欧石南的干土壤是黑色的。虽然夜越来越黑，但我仍能看清这些差别，尽管它不过是光影的交替，因为颜色已经随日光而褪尽了。My eye still roved over the sullen swell and along the moor-edge, vanishing amidst the wildest scenery, when at one dim point, far in among the marshes and the ridges, a light sprang up.  “That is an ignis fatuus,” was my first thought; and I expected it would soon vanish.  It burnt on, however, quite steadily, neither receding nor advancing.  “Is it, then, a bonfire just kindled?” I questioned.  I watched to see whether it would spread: but no; as it did not diminish, so it did not enlarge.  “It may be a candle in a house,” I then conjectured; “but if so, I can never reach it.  It is much too far away: and were it within a yard of me, what would it avail?  I should but knock at the door to have it shut in my face.”我的目光仍在暗淡的高地游弋，并沿着消失在最荒凉的景色中的荒原边缘逡巡。这时，远在沼泽和山脊之中，一个模糊的点，一道光跃入我眼帘。“那是鬼火，”是我第一个想法，我估计它会立即消失。然而，那光继续亮着，显得很稳定，既不后退，也不前进。“难道是刚点燃的篝火？”我产生了疑问。我注视着，看它会不会扩散。但没有，它既不缩小，也不扩大。“这也许是一间房子里的烛光。”我随后揣想着，“即便那样，我也永远到不了那儿了。它离这儿太远，可就是离我一码远，又有什么用？我只会敲，开门，又当着我面关上。”And I sank down where I stood, and hid my face against the ground.  I lay still a while: the night-wind swept over the hill and over me, and died moaning in the distance; the rain fell fast, wetting me afresh to the skin.  Could I but have stiffened to the still frost—the friendly numbness of death—it might have pelted on; I should not have felt it; but my yet living flesh shuddered at its chilling influence.  I rose ere long.我就在站立的地方颓然倒下，把头埋进地里，静静地躺了一会。夜风刮过小山，吹过我身上，呜咽着在远处消失。雨下得很大，重又把我浇透。要是这么冻成了冰块一—那么友好地麻木而死——雨点也许还会那么敲击着；而我毫无感觉。可是我依然活着的肉体，在寒气的侵袭下颤抖，不久我便站了起来。The light was yet there, shining dim but constant through the rain.  I tried to walk again: I dragged my exhausted limbs slowly towards it.  It led me aslant over the hill, through a wide bog, which would have been impassable in winter, and was splashy and shaking even now, in the height of summer.  Here I fell twice; but as often I rose and rallied my faculties.  This light was my forlorn hope: I must gain it.那光仍在那边，在雨中显得朦胧和遥远。我试着再走，拖着疲乏的双腿慢慢地朝它走去。它引导我穿过一个宽阔的泥沼，从斜刺里上了山。要是在冬天，这个泥沼是没法通过的，就是眼下盛夏，也是泥浆四溅，一步一摇晃。我跌倒了两次，两次都爬起来，振作起精神。那道光是我几乎无望的希望，我得赶到那里。Having crossed the marsh, I saw a trace of white over the moor.  I approached it; it was a road or a track: it led straight up to the light, which now beamed from a sort of knoll, amidst a clump of trees—firs, apparently, from what I could distinguish of the character of their forms and foliage through the gloom.  My star vanished as I drew near: some obstacle had intervened between me and it.  I put out my hand to feel the dark mass before me: I discriminated the rough stones of a low wall—above it, something like palisades, and within, a high and prickly hedge.  I groped on.  Again a whitish object gleamed before me: it was a gate—a wicket; it moved on its hinges as I touched it.  On each side stood a sable bush-holly or yew.穿过沼泽我看到荒原上有一条白印子，我向它走去，见是一条大路或是小径，直通那道正从树丛中一个小土墩上射来的光。在昏暗中从树形和树叶能分辨出，那显然是杉木树丛，我一走近，我的星星便不见了，原来某些障碍把它和我隔开了，我伸出手在面前一团漆黑中摸索。我辨认出了一堵矮墙的粗糙石头—一上面象是—道栅栏，里面是高而带刺的篱笆。我继续往前摸。那白色东西歪又在我面前闪光了，原来是一条门——一条旋转门，我一碰便在铰链上转了起来。门两边各有一丛黑黑的灌木——是冬青或是紫杉。Entering the gate and passing the shrubs, the silhouette of a house rose to view, black, low, and rather long; but the guiding light shone nowhere.  All was obscurity.  Were the inmates retired to rest?  I feared it must be so.  In seeking the door, I turned an angle: there shot out the friendly gleam again, from the lozenged panes of a very small latticed window, within a foot of the ground, made still smaller by the growth of ivy or some other creeping plant, whose leaves clustered thick over the portion of the house wall in which it was set.  The aperture was so screened and narrow, that curtain or shutter had been deemed unnecessary; and when I stooped down and put aside the spray of foliage shooting over it, I could see all within.  I could see clearly a room with a sanded floor, clean scoured; a dresser of walnut, with pewter plates ranged in rows, reflecting the redness and radiance of a glowing peat-fire.  I could see a clock, a white deal table, some chairs.  The candle, whose ray had been my beacon, burnt on the table; and by its light an elderly woman, somewhat rough-looking, but scrupulously clean, like all about her, was knitting a stocking.进了门，走过灌木，眼前便现出了一所房子的剪影，又黑又矮却相当长。但是那道引路的光却消失了，一切都模模糊糊。难道屋里的人都安息了？我担心准是这样。我转了一个角度去找门，那里又闪起了友好的灯光，是从一尺之内一扇格子小窗的菱形玻璃上射出来的，那扇窗因为长青藤或是满墙的爬藤类植物的叶子，显得更小了。留下的空隙那么小，又覆盖得那么好，窗帘和百叶窗似乎都没有必要了。我弯腰撩开窗户上浓密的小枝条，里面的一切便看得清清楚楚了。我能看得清房间的沙子地板擦得干干净净。还有一个核桃木餐具柜，上面放着一排排锡盘，映出了燃烧着的泥炭火的红光。我能看得见一只钟、一张白色的松木桌和几把椅子，桌子上点着一根蜡烛，烛光一直是我的灯塔。一个看去有些粗糙，但也像她周围的一切那样一尘不染的老妇人，借着烛光在编织袜子。I noticed these objects cursorily only—in them there was nothing extraordinary.  A group of more interest appeared near the hearth, sitting still amidst the rosy peace and warmth suffusing it.  Two young, graceful women—ladies in every point—sat, one in a low rocking-chair, the other on a lower stool; both wore deep mourning of crape and bombazeen, which sombre garb singularly set off very fair necks and faces: a large old pointer dog rested its massive head on the knee of one girl—in the lap of the other was cushioned a black cat.我只是粗略地看了看这些东西，——它们并没有不同寻常的地方。令我更感兴趣的是火炉旁的一群人，在洋溢着的玫瑰色的宁静和暖意中默默地坐着。两个年轻高雅的女子一一从各方面看都像贵妇人——坐着，一个坐在低低的摇椅里；另一个坐在一条更矮的凳子上。两人都穿戴了黑纱和毛葛的重丧服，暗沉沉的服饰格外烘托出她们白皙的脖子和面孔。一只大猎狗把它巨大无比的头靠在一个姑娘膝头，——另一个姑娘的膝头则偎着一只黑猫。A strange place was this humble kitchen for such occupants!  Who were they?  They could not be the daughters of the elderly person at the table; for she looked like a rustic, and they were all delicacy and cultivation.  I had nowhere seen such faces as theirs: and yet, as I gazed on them, I seemed intimate with every lineament.  I cannot call them handsome—they were too pale and grave for the word: as they each bent over a book, they looked thoughtful almost to severity.  A stand between them supported a second candle and two great volumes, to which they frequently referred, comparing them, seemingly, with the smaller books they held in their hands, like people consulting a dictionary to aid them in the task of translation.  This scene was as silent as if all the figures had been shadows and the firelit apartment a picture: so hushed was it, I could hear the cinders fall from the grate, the clock tick in its obscure corner; and I even fancied I could distinguish the click-click of the woman’s knitting-needles.  When, therefore, a voice broke the strange stillness at last, it was audible enough to me.这个简陋的厨房里居然呆着这样两个人，真是奇怪。她们会是谁呢，不可能是桌子旁边那个长者的女儿，因为她显得很土，而她们却完全是高雅而有教养。我没有在别处看到过这样的面容，然而我盯着她们看时，却似乎觉得熟悉每一个面部特征。她们说不上漂亮一—过份苍白严肃了些，够不上这个词。两人都低头看书，显得若有所思，甚至还有些严厉。她们之间的架子上放着第二根蜡烛，和两大卷书，两人不时地翻阅着，似乎还在与手中的小书作比较，像是在查阅词典，翻译什么一样。这一幕静得仿佛所有的人都成了影子，生了火的房间活像一幅画。这儿那么静谧，我能听到煤渣从炉栅上落下的声音，昏暗的角落时钟的嘀嗒声，我甚至想象我能分辨出那女人嚓嚓嚓嚓的编织声，因而当一个嗓音终于打破奇怪的宁静时，我足以听得分明。“Listen, Diana,” said one of the absorbed students; “Franz and old Daniel are together in the night-time, and Franz is telling a dream from which he has awakened in terror—listen!”  And in a low voice she read something, of which not one word was intelligible to me; for it was in an unknown tongue—neither French nor Latin.  Whether it were Greek or German I could not tell.“听着，黛安娜，”两位专心致志的学生中的一位说，“费朗茨和老丹尼尔在一起过夜。费朗茨正说起一个梦，这个梦把他给吓醒——听着！”她声音放得很低，读了什么东西，我连一个字也没听懂，因为这是一种完全陌生的语言——既不是法文，也不是拉丁。至于是希腊文还是德文，我无法判断。“That is strong,” she said, when she had finished: “I relish it.”  The other girl, who had lifted her head to listen to her sister, repeated, while she gazed at the fire, a line of what had been read.  At a later day, I knew the language and the book; therefore, I will here quote the line: though, when I first heard it, it was only like a stroke on sounding brass to me—conveying no meaning:—“那说得很有力，”她念完后说，“我很欣赏。”另一位抬头听着她妹妹的站娘，一面凝视炉火，一面重复了刚才读过的一行。后来，我知道了那种语言和那本书，所以我要在这里加以引用，尽管我当初听来，仿佛是敲在铜器上的响声一—不传达任何意义：“‘Da trat hervor Einer, anzusehen wie die Sternen Nacht.’  Good! good!” she exclaimed, while her dark and deep eye sparkled.  “There you have a dim and mighty archangel fitly set before you!  The line is worth a hundred pages of fustian.  ‘Ich wäge die Gedanken in der Schale meines Zornes und die Werke mit dem Gewichte meines Grimms.’  I like it!”“DatrathervorEiner,anzusehnwiedieSternenNacht”“妙！妙！”她大嚷着，乌黑深沉的眼睛闪着光芒。“你面前恰好站了一位模糊而伟大的天使！这一行胜过一百页浮华的文章。‘IchwagedieGedankeninderSchalemeinesZornesunddieWerkemitdemGewichtemeinesGrimms’我喜欢它！”Both were again silent.两人沉默了，“Is there ony country where they talk i’ that way?” asked the old woman, looking up from her knitting.“有哪个国家的人是那么说话的？”那老妇人停下手头的编织、抬起头来问。“Yes, Hannah—a far larger country than England, where they talk in no other way.”“有的、汉娜一—一个比英国要大得多的国家、那里的人就只这么说。”“Well, for sure case, I knawn’t how they can understand t’ one t’other: and if either o’ ye went there, ye could tell what they said, I guess?”“噢，说真的，我不知道他们彼此怎么能明白，要是你们谁上那儿去，我想你们能懂他说的话吧？”“We could probably tell something of what they said, but not all—for we are not as clever as you think us, Hannah.  We don’t speak German, and we cannot read it without a dictionary to help us.”“他们说的我们很可能只懂—些，不是全部都懂——因为我们不像你想象的那么聪明，汉娜，我们不会说德语，而且不借助词典还读不懂。”“And what good does it do you?”“那这对你们有什么用？”“We mean to teach it some time—or at least the elements, as they say; and then we shall get more money than we do now.”“某一天我们想教德语——或者像他们说的，至少教基础，然后我们会比现在赚更多的钱，”“Varry like: but give ower studying; ye’ve done enough for to-night.”“很可能的，不过今晚你们读得够多了。该停止了。”“I think we have: at least I’m tired.  Mary, are you?”“我想是够多了，至少我倦了，玛丽，你呢？”“Mortally: after all, it’s tough work fagging away at a language with no master but a lexicon.”“累极了，那么孜孜不倦学一门语言，没有老师，只靠一部词典，毕竟是吃力的。”“It is, especially such a language as this crabbed but glorious Deutsch.  I wonder when St. John will come home.”“是呀，尤其是像德语这样艰涩而出色的语言。不知道圣.约翰什么时候会回家来。”“Surely he will not be long now: it is just ten (looking at a little gold watch she drew from her girdle).  It rains fast, Hannah: will you have the goodness to look at the fire in the parlour?”“现在肯定不会太久了，才十点呢（她从腰带里掏出一只小小的金表来，看了一眼）”。“雨下得很大，汉娜。请你看一下客厅里的火炉好吗？”The woman rose: she opened a door, through which I dimly saw a passage: soon I heard her stir a fire in an inner room; she presently came back.那妇人站起来，开了门。从门外望进去，我依稀看到了一条过道。不一会我听她在内间拨着火，她马上又返回了。“Ah, childer!” said she, “it fair troubles me to go into yond’ room now: it looks so lonesome wi’ the chair empty and set back in a corner.”“呵，孩子们！”她说，“这会儿进那边的房间真让我难受。椅子空空的，都靠后摆在角落里，看上去很冷清。”She wiped her eyes with her apron: the two girls, grave before, looked sad now.她用围裙揩了揩眼睛，两位神情严肃的姑娘这时也显得很关心。“But he is in a better place,” continued Hannah: “we shouldn’t wish him here again.  And then, nobody need to have a quieter death nor he had.”“不过他在一个更好的地方了，”汉娜继续说：“我们不该再盼他在这里。而且，谁也不会比他死得更安详了。”“You say he never mentioned us?” inquired one of the ladies.“你说他从没提起过我们？”一位小姐问。“He hadn’t time, bairn: he was gone in a minute, was your father.  He had been a bit ailing like the day before, but naught to signify; and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o’ ye to be sent for, he fair laughed at him.  He began again with a bit of a heaviness in his head the next day—that is, a fortnight sin’—and he went to sleep and niver wakened: he wor a’most stark when your brother went into t’ chamber and fand him.  


Ah, childer! that’s t’ last o’ t’ old stock—for ye and Mr. St. John is like of different soart to them ‘at’s gone; for all your mother wor mich i’ your way, and a’most as book-learned.  She wor the pictur’ o’ ye, Mary: Diana is more like your father.”“他来不及提了，孩子，他一下子就去了——你们的父亲。像前一天一样，他一直有点痛，但不严重。圣•约翰先生问他，是否要派人去叫你们两个中的一个回来，他还笑他呢。第二天他的头开始有点沉重——那是两周以前——他睡过去了，再也没有醒来。你们兄弟进房间发现他的时候，他差不多已经咽气了。





呵，孩子！那是最后一个老派人了——因为跟那些过世的人相比，你和圣•约翰先生似是另一类人，你母亲完全也像你们一样，差不多一样有学问。你活像她，玛丽，黛安娜像你们父亲。”I thought them so similar I could not tell where the old servant (for such I now concluded her to be) saw the difference.  Both were fair complexioned and slenderly made; both possessed faces full of distinction and intelligence.  One, to be sure, had hair a shade darker than the other, and there was a difference in their style of wearing it; Mary’s pale brown locks were parted and braided smooth: Diana’s duskier tresses covered her neck with thick curls.  The clock struck ten.我认为她们彼此很像，看不出老仆人（这会儿我断定她是这种身份的人）所见的区别。两人都是皮肤白皙，身材苗条。两人的脸都绝顶聪明，很有特征。当然一位的头发比另一位要深些，发式也不一样。玛丽的浅褐色头发两边分开，梳成了光光的辫子，黛安娜的深色头发流成粗厚的发卷，遮盖着脖子。时钟敲了十点。“Ye’ll want your supper, I am sure,” observed Hannah; “and so will Mr. St. John when he comes in.”“肯定你们想吃晚饭了，”汉娜说。“圣•约翰先生回来了也会一样。”And she proceeded to prepare the meal.  The ladies rose; they seemed about to withdraw to the parlour.  Till this moment, I had been so intent on watching them, their appearance and conversation had excited in me so keen an interest, I had half-forgotten my own wretched position: now it recurred to me.  More desolate, more desperate than ever, it seemed from contrast.  And how impossible did it appear to touch the inmates of this house with concern on my behalf; to make them believe in the truth of my wants and woes—to induce them to vouchsafe a rest for my wanderings!  As I groped out the door, and knocked at it hesitatingly, I felt that last idea to be a mere chimera.  Hannah opened.她忙着去准备晚饭了。两位小姐立起身来，似乎正要走开到客厅去。在这之前我一直目不转睛地看着她们，她们的外表和谈话引起了我强烈的兴趣，我竟把自己的痛苦处境忘掉了一半。这会儿却重又想了起来，与她们一对比，我的境遇就更凄凉、更绝望了。要打动房子里的人让她们来关心我，相信我的需要和悲苦是真的一一要说动她们为我的流浪提供一个歇息之处，是多么不可能呀！我摸到门边，犹犹豫豫地敲了起来时，我觉得自己后一个念头不过是妄想。汉娜开了门。“What do you want?” she inquired, in a voice of surprise, as she surveyed me by the light of the candle she held.“你有什么事？”她一面借着手中的烛光打量我，一面带着惊异的声调问。“May I speak to your mistresses?” I said.“我可以同你的小姐们说说吗？”我说。“You had better tell me what you have to say to them.  Where do you come from?”“你还是告诉我你有什么话要同她们讲吧，你是从哪儿来的？”“I am a stranger.”“我是个陌生人。”“What is your business here at this hour?”“这时候上这里来干什么？”“I want a night’s shelter in an out-house or anywhere, and a morsel of bread to eat.”“我想在外间或者什么地方搭宿一个晚上，还要一口面包吃。”Distrust, the very feeling I dreaded, appeared in Hannah’s face.  “I’ll give you a piece of bread,” she said, after a pause; “but we can’t take in a vagrant to lodge.  It isn’t likely.”汉娜脸上出现了我所担心的那种怀疑的表情。“我给你一片面包，”她顿了一下说，“但我们不收流浪者过夜。那不妥当。”“Do let me speak to your mistresses.”“无论加何让我同你小姐们说说。”“No, not I.  What can they do for you?  You should not be roving about now; it looks very ill.”“不行，我不让。她们能替你做什么呢？这会儿你不该游荡了，天气看来很不好。”“But where shall I go if you drive me away?  What shall I do?”“但要是你把我赶走，我能上哪儿呢？我怎么办呢？”“Oh, I’ll warrant you know where to go and what to do.  Mind you don’t do wrong, that’s all.  Here is a penny; now go—”“呵，我保证你知道上哪儿去干什么？当心别干坏事就行啦。这儿是一个便士，现在你走吧！”“A penny cannot feed me, and I have no strength to go farther.  Don’t shut the door:—oh, don’t, for God’s sake!”“一便士不能填饱我肚皮，而我没有力气往前赶路了。别关门！—一呵，别，看在上帝份上：”“I must; the rain is driving in—”“我得关掉，否则雨要泼进来了。”“Tell the young ladies.  Let me see them—”“告诉年轻姑娘们吧，让我见见她们。”“Indeed, I will not.  You are not what you ought to be, or you wouldn’t make such a noise.  Move off.”“说真的我不让。你不守本份，要不你不会这么吵吵嚷嚷的。走吧！”“But I must die if I am turned away.”“要是把我赶走，我准会死掉的。”“Not you.  I’m fear’d you have some ill plans agate, that bring you about folk’s houses at this time o’ night.  If you’ve any followers—housebreakers or such like—anywhere near, you may tell them we are not by ourselves in the house; we have a gentleman, and dogs, and guns.”  Here the honest but inflexible servant clapped the door to and bolted it within.“你才不会呢。我担心你们打着什么坏主意，所以才那么深更半夜到人家房子里来，要是你有什么同伙一一强入住宅打劫的一类人——就在近旁，你可以告诉他们，房子里不光是我们这几个，我们有一位先生，还有狗和枪。”说到这儿，这位诚实却执拗的佣人关了门，在里面上了闩。This was the climax.  A pang of exquisite suffering—a throe of true despair—rent and heaved my heart.  Worn out, indeed, I was; not another step could I stir.  I sank on the wet doorstep: I groaned—I wrung my hands—I wept in utter anguish.  Oh, this spectre of death!  Oh, this last hour, approaching in such horror!  Alas, this isolation—this banishment from my kind!  Not only the anchor of hope, but the footing of fortitude was gone—at least for a moment; but the last I soon endeavoured to regain.这下子可是倒霉透顶了。一阵剧痛——彻底绝望的痛苦一—充溢并撕裂了我的心。其实我已经衰弱不堪，就是再往前跨一步的力气都没有了。我颓然倒在潮湿的门前台阶上。我呻吟着——绞着手——极度痛苦地哭了起来。呵，死亡的幽灵！呵，这最后的一刻来得那么恐怖！哎呀，这种孤独——那么从自己同类中被撵走！不要说希望之锚消失了，就连刚强精神立足的地方也不见了一—至少有一会儿是这样，但后一点，我马上又努力恢复了。“I can but die,” I said, “and I believe in God.  Let me try to wait His will in silence.”“我只能死了，”我说，“而我相信上帝，让我试着默默地等待他的意志吧。”These words I not only thought, but uttered; and thrusting back all my misery into my heart, I made an effort to compel it to remain there—dumb and still.这些话我不仅脑子里想了，而且还说出了口，我把一切痛苦又驱回心里，竭力强迫它留在那里．—一安安静静地不出声。“All men must die,” said a voice quite close at hand; “but all are not condemned to meet a lingering and premature doom, such as yours would be if you perished here of want.”“人总是要死的，”离我很近的一个声音说道：“但并不是所有的人都注定要象你这样，慢悠悠受尽折磨而早死的，要是你就这么死于饥渴的话。”“Who or what speaks?” I asked, terrified at the unexpected sound, and incapable now of deriving from any occurrence a hope of aid.  A form was near—what form, the pitch-dark night and my enfeebled vision prevented me from distinguishing.  With a loud long knock, the new-comer appealed to the door.“是谁，或者什么东西在说话？”我问道，一时被突如其来的声音吓了一跳。此刻我不会对发生的任何事情寄予得救的希望。一个影子移近了一—究竟什么影子，漆黑的夜和衰弱的视力使我难以分辨。这位新来者在门上重重地长时间敲了起来。“Is it you, Mr. St. John?” cried Hannah.“是你吗，圣•约翰先生？”汉娜叫道。“Yes—yes; open quickly.”“是呀—一是呀，快开门。”“Well, how wet and cold you must be, such a wild night as it is!  Come in—your sisters are quite uneasy about you, and I believe there are bad folks about.  There has been a beggar-woman—I declare she is not gone yet!—laid down there.  Get up! for shame!  Move off, I say!”“哎呀，那么个狂风暴雨的夜晚，你准是又湿又感觉冷了：进来吧——你妹妹们为你很担心，而且我相信附近有坏人。有一个女讨饭——我说她还没有走呢？躺在那里。快起来！真害臊！我说你走吧！”“Hush, Hannah!  I have a word to say to the woman.  You have done your duty in excluding, now let me do mine in admitting her.  I was near, and listened to both you and her.  I think this is a peculiar case—I must at least examine into it.  Young woman, rise, and pass before me into the house.”“嘘，汉娜！我来对这女人说句话，你已经尽了责把她关在门外，这会儿让我来尽我的责把她放进来。我就在旁边，听了你也听了她说的。我想这情况特殊一一我至少得了解一下。年轻的女人，起来吧，从我面前进屋去。”With difficulty I obeyed him.  Presently I stood within that clean, bright kitchen—on the very hearth—trembling, sickening; conscious of an aspect in the last degree ghastly, wild, and weather-beaten.  The two ladies, their brother, Mr. St. John, the old servant, were all gazing at me.我困难地照他的话办了，不久我就站在干净明亮的厨房里了——就在炉子跟前——浑身发抖，病得厉害，知道自己风吹雨打、精神狂乱，样子极其可怕。两位小姐，她们的哥哥圣•约翰先生和老仆人都呆呆地看着我。“St. John, who is it?” I heard one ask.“圣•约翰，这是谁呀，”我听见一个问。“I cannot tell: I found her at the door,” was the reply.“我说不上来，发现她在门边，”那人回答。“She does look white,” said Hannah.“她脸色真苍白，”汉娜说。“As white as clay or death,” was responded.  “She will fall: let her sit.”“色如死灰，”对方回答，“她会倒下的，让她坐着吧。”And indeed my head swam: I dropped, but a chair received me.  I still possessed my senses, though just now I could not speak.说真的我的脑袋昏昏沉沉的。我倒了下去，但一把椅子接住了我。尽管这会儿我说不了话，但神志是清醒的。“Perhaps a little water would restore her.  Hannah, fetch some.  But she is worn to nothing.  How very thin, and how very bloodless!”“也许喝点水会使她恢复过来。汉娜，去打点水来吧。不过她憔悴得不成样子了。那么瘦，一点血色也没有！”“A mere spectre!”“简直成了个影子。”“Is she ill, or only famished?”“她病了，还光是饿坏了？”“Famished, I think.  Hannah, is that milk?  Give it me, and a piece of bread.”“我想是饿坏了。汉娜，那可是牛奶，给我吧，再给一片面包。”Diana (I knew her by the long curls which I saw drooping between me and the fire as she bent over me) broke some bread, dipped it in milk, and put it to my lips.  Her face was near mine: I saw there was pity in it, and I felt sympathy in her hurried breathing.  In her simple words, too, the same balm-like emotion spoke: “Try to eat.”黛安娜（我是在她朝我弯下身子，看到垂在我与火炉之间的长卷发知道的）掰下了一些面包，在牛奶里浸了一浸，送进我嘴里。她的脸紧挨着我，在她脸上我看到了一种怜悯的表情，从她急促的呼吸中我感受到了她的同情。她用朴素的话说出了满腔温情：“硬吃一点吧。”“Yes—try,” repeated Mary gently; and Mary’s hand removed my sodden bonnet and lifted my head.  I tasted what they offered me: feebly at first, eagerly soon.“是呀——硬吃一点”玛丽和气地重复着，从我头上摘去了湿透的草帽，把我的头托起来。我尝了尝他们给我的东西，先是恹恹地，但马上便急不可耐了。“Not too much at first—restrain her,” said the brother; “she has had enough.”  And he withdrew the cup of milk and the plate of bread.“先别让她吃得太多一一控制一下，”哥哥说，“她已经吃够了”。于是她端走了那杯牛奶和那盘面包。“A little more, St. John—look at the avidity in her eyes.”“再让她吃一点点吧，圣•约翰——瞧她眼睛里的贪婪相。”“No more at present, sister.  Try if she can speak now—ask her her name.”“暂时不要了，妹妹。要是她现在能说话，那就试着——问问她的名字吧。”I felt I could speak, and I answered—“My name is Jane Elliott.”  Anxious as ever to avoid discovery, I had before resolved to assume an alias.我觉得自己能说了，而且回答——‘我的名字叫简•爱略特，因为仍急于避免被人发现，我早就决定用别名了。“And where do you live?  Where are your friends?”“你住在什么地方，你的朋友在哪里，”I was silent.我没有吭声。“Can we send for any one you know?”“我们可以把你认识的人去叫来吗？”I shook my head.我摇了摇头。“What account can you give of yourself?”“你能说说你自己的事儿吗？”Somehow, now that I had once crossed the threshold of this house, and once was brought face to face with its owners, I felt no longer outcast, vagrant, and disowned by the wide world.  I dared to put off the mendicant—to resume my natural manner and character.  I began once more to know myself; and when Mr. St. John demanded an account—which at present I was far too weak to render—I said after a brief pause—不知怎地，我一跨进门槛，一被带到这家主人面前，就不再觉得自己无家可归，到处流浪，被广阔的世界所抛弃了。我就敢于扔掉行乞的行当一—恢复我本来的举止和个性。我再次开始了解自己。圣•约翰要我谈—下自己的事时——眼下我体质太弱没法儿讲——我稍稍顿了一顿后说——“Sir, I can give you no details to-night.”“先生，今晚我没法给你细讲了。”“But what, then,” said he, “do you expect me to do for you?”“不过，”他说，“那么你希望我们为你做些什么呢？”“Nothing,” I replied.  My strength sufficed for but short answers.  Diana took the word—“没有，”我回答。我的力气只够我作这样简要的回答。黛安娜接过了话：“Do you mean,” she asked, “that we have now given you what aid you require? and that we may dismiss you to the moor and the rainy night?”“你的意思是，”她问，“我们既然已给了你所需要的帮助，那就可以把你打发到荒原和雨夜中去了？”I looked at her.  She had, I thought, a remarkable countenance, instinct both with power and goodness.  I took sudden courage.  Answering her compassionate gaze with a smile, I said—“I will trust you.  If I were a masterless and stray dog, I know that you would not turn me from your hearth to-night: as it is, I really have no fear.  Do with me and for me as you like; but excuse me from much discourse—my breath is short—I feel a spasm when I speak.”  All three surveyed me, and all three were silent.我看了看她。我想她的脸很出众，流溢着力量和善意。我蓦地鼓起勇气，对她满是同情的目光报之以微笑。我说：“我会相信你们。假如我是一条迷路的无主狗，我知道你们今天晚上不会把我从火炉旁撵走。其实，我真的并不害怕。随你们怎么对待我照应我吧，但请原谅我不能讲得太多——我的气很短——一讲话就痉挛。”三个人都仔细打量我，三个人都不说话。“Hannah,” said Mr. St. John, at last, “let her sit there at present, and ask her no questions; in ten minutes more, give her the remainder of that milk and bread.  Mary and Diana, let us go into the parlour and talk the matter over.”“汉娜，”圣•约翰先生终于说，“这会儿就让她坐在那里吧，别问她问题。十分钟后把剩下的牛奶和面包给她。玛丽和黛安娜，我们到客厅去，仔细谈谈这件事吧。”They withdrew.  Very soon one of the ladies returned—I could not tell which.  A kind of pleasant stupor was stealing over me as I sat by the genial fire.  In an undertone she gave some directions to Hannah.  Ere long, with the servant’s aid, I contrived to mount a staircase; my dripping clothes were removed; soon a warm, dry bed received me.  I thanked God—experienced amidst unutterable exhaustion a glow of grateful joy—and slept.他们出去了。很快一位小姐回来了一—我分不出是哪一位，我坐在暖融融的火炉边时，一种神思恍惚的快感悄悄地流遍我全身。她低声吩咐了汉娜。没有多久，在佣人的帮助下，我挣扎着登上楼梯，脱去了湿淋淋的衣服，很快躺倒在一张温暖干燥的床上。我感谢上帝——在难以言说的疲惫中感受到了一丝感激的喜悦——便睡着了。CHAPTER XXIX第二十九章The recollection of about three days and nights succeeding this is very dim in my mind.  I can recall some sensations felt in that interval; but few thoughts framed, and no actions performed.  I knew I was in a small room and in a narrow bed.  To that bed I seemed to have grown; I lay on it motionless as a stone; and to have torn me from it would have been almost to kill me.  I took no note of the lapse of time—of the change from morning to noon, from noon to evening.  I observed when any one entered or left the apartment: I could even tell who they were; I could understand what was said when the speaker stood near to me; but I could not answer; to open my lips or move my limbs was equally impossible.  Hannah, the servant, was my most frequent visitor.  Her coming disturbed me.  I had a feeling that she wished me away: that she did not understand me or my circumstances; that she was prejudiced against me.  Diana and Mary appeared in the chamber once or twice a day.  They would whisper sentences of this sort at my bedside—这以后的三天三夜，我脑子里的记忆很模糊。我能回忆起那段时间一鳞半爪的感觉，但形不成什么想法，付诸不了行动。我知道自己在一个小房间里，躺在狭窄的床上，我与那张床似乎已难舍难分。我躺着一动不动，像块石头。把我从那儿挣开，几乎等于要我的命。我并不在乎时间的流逝——不在乎上午转为下午、下午转为晚上的变化。我观察别人进出房间，甚至还能分辨出他们是谁，能听懂别人在我身旁所说的话，但回答不上来。动嘴唇与动手脚一样不行。佣人汉娜来得最多，她一来就使我感到不安。我有一种感觉，她希望我走。她不了解我和我的处境，对我怀有偏见。黛安娜和玛丽每天到房间来一两回。她们会在我床边悄声说着这一类话：“It is very well we took her in.”“幸好我们把她收留下来了。”“Yes; she would certainly have been found dead at the door in the morning had she been left out all night.  I wonder what she has gone through?”“是呀，要是她整夜给关在房子外面，第二天早晨准会死有门口。不知道她吃了什么苦头。”“Strange hardships, I imagine—poor, emaciated, pallid wanderer?”“我想象是少见的苦头吧，——消瘦、苍白、可怜的流浪者！”“She is not an uneducated person, I should think, by her manner of speaking; her accent was quite pure; and the clothes she took off, though splashed and wet, were little worn and fine.”“从她说话的神态看，我认为她不是一个没有受过教育的人、她的口音很纯。她脱下的衣服虽然湿淋淋溅了泥，但不旧，而且很精致。”“She has a peculiar face; fleshless and haggard as it is, I rather like it; and when in good health and animated, I can fancy her physiognomy would be agreeable.”“她的脸很奇特，尽管皮包骨头又很憔悴，但我比较喜欢。可以想见她健康而有生气时、面孔一定很可爱。”Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at the hospitality they had extended to me, or of suspicion of, or aversion to, myself.  I was comforted.在她们的交谈中，我从来没有听到她们说过一句话，对自己的好客，表示懊悔，或者对我表示怀疑或厌恶。我得到了安慰。Mr. St. John came but once: he looked at me, and said my state of lethargy was the result of reaction from excessive and protracted fatigue.  He pronounced it needless to send for a doctor: nature, he was sure, would manage best, left to herself.  He said every nerve had been overstrained in some way, and the whole system must sleep torpid a while.  There was no disease.  He imagined my recovery would be rapid enough when once commenced.  These opinions he delivered in a few words, in a quiet, low voice; and added, after a pause, in the tone of a man little accustomed to expansive comment, “Rather an unusual physiognomy; certainly, not indicative of vulgarity or degradation.”圣•约翰先生只来过一次，他瞧着我，说我昏睡不醒是长期疲劳过度的反应，认为不必去叫医生，确信最好的办法是顺其自然。他说每根神经都有些紧张过度，所以整个机体得有一段沉睡麻木的时期，而并不是什么病。他想象我的身体一旦开始恢复，会好得很快。他用几句话表示了这些意见，语调平静而低沉。他顿了一下之后又加了一句，用的是一个不习惯于长篇大论的人的语调：“一张不同一般的脸，倒没有庸俗下贱之相。”“Far otherwise,” responded Diana.  “To speak truth, St. John, my heart rather warms to the poor little soul.  I wish we may be able to benefit her permanently.”“恰恰相反，”黛安娜回答，“说实话，圣•约翰，我内心对这可怜的小幽灵产生了好感。但愿我们永远能够帮助她。”“That is hardly likely,” was the reply.  “You will find she is some young lady who has had a misunderstanding with her friends, and has probably injudiciously left them.  We may, perhaps, succeed in restoring her to them, if she is not obstinate: but I trace lines of force in her face which make me sceptical of her tractability.”  He stood considering me some minutes; then added, “She looks sensible, but not at all handsome.”“这不大可能，”对方回答，“你会发现她是某个年轻小姐，与自己朋友产生了误会，可能轻率地一走了之。要是她不固执，我们也许可以把她送回去。但是我注意到了她脸上很有力的线条，这使我怀疑她脾气很倔强。”他站着端详了我一会，随后补充说，”她看上去很聪明，但一点也不漂亮。”“She is so ill, St. John.”“她病得那么重，圣•约翰。”“Ill or well, she would always be plain.  The grace and harmony of beauty are quite wanting in those features.”“不管身体好不好，反正长得很一般。那些五官缺少美的雅致与和谐。”On the third day I was better; on the fourth, I could speak, move, rise in bed, and turn.  Hannah had brought me some gruel and dry toast, about, as I supposed, the dinner-hour.  I had eaten with relish: the food was good—void of the feverish flavour which had hitherto poisoned what I had swallowed.  When she left me, I felt comparatively strong and revived: ere long satiety of repose and desire for action stirred me.  I wished to rise; but what could I put on?  Only my damp and bemired apparel; in which I had slept on the ground and fallen in the marsh.  I felt ashamed to appear before my benefactors so clad.  I was spared the humiliation.到了第三天我好些了，第四天我已能说话，移动，从床上坐起来，转动身子。我想大约晚饭时间，汉娜端来一些粥和烤面包。我吃得津津有味，觉得这些东西很好吃——不像前几天发烧时，吃什么都没有味道，她离开我时，我觉得已有些力气，恢复了元气。不久，我对休息感到厌腻，很想起来动动，想从床上爬起来。但是穿什么好呢？只有溅了泥的湿衣服，我就是那么穿着睡在地上，倒在沼泽地里的，我羞于以这身打扮出现在我的恩人们面前。不过我免掉了这种羞辱。On a chair by the bedside were all my own things, clean and dry.  My black silk frock hung against the wall.  The traces of the bog were removed from it; the creases left by the wet smoothed out: it was quite decent.  My very shoes and stockings were purified and rendered presentable.  There were the means of washing in the room, and a comb and brush to smooth my hair.  After a weary process, and resting every five minutes, I succeeded in dressing myself.  My clothes hung loose on me; for I was much wasted, but I covered deficiencies with a shawl, and once more, clean and respectable looking—no speck of the dirt, no trace of the disorder I so hated, and which seemed so to degrade me, left—I crept down a stone staircase with the aid of the banisters, to a narrow low passage, and found my way presently to the kitchen.我床边的椅子上摆着我所有的衣物，又干净又干燥。我的黑丝上衣挂在墙上。泥沼的印迹已经洗去，潮湿留下的褶皱己经熨平，看上去很不错了，我的鞋子和袜子已洗得干干净净，很是象样了，房子里有流洗的工具，有一把梳子和一把刷子可把头发梳理整齐。我疲乏地挣扎了一番，每隔五分钟休息一下，终于穿好了衣服。因为消瘦，衣服穿在身上很宽松，不过我用披肩掩盖了这个不足。于是我再一次清清爽爽体体面面了—一没有—丝我最讨厌、并似乎很降低我身份的尘土和凌乱——我扶着栏杆，爬下了石头楼梯，到了一条低矮窄小的过道，立刻进了厨房。It was full of the fragrance of new bread and the warmth of a generous fire.  Hannah was baking.  Prejudices, it is well known, are most difficult to eradicate from the heart whose soil has never been loosened or fertilised by education: they grow there, firm as weeds among stones.  Hannah had been cold and stiff, indeed, at the first: latterly she had begun to relent a little; and when she saw me come in tidy and well-dressed, she even smiled.厨房里弥漫着新鲜面包的香气和熊熊炉火的暖意。汉娜正在烤面包。众所周知，偏见很难从没有用教育松过土施过肥的心田里根除。它象野草钻出石缝那样顽强地在那儿生长。说实在，起初汉娜冷淡生硬。近来开始和气一点了，而这回见我衣冠楚楚，竟笑了起来。“What, you have got up!” she said.  “You are better, then.  You may sit you down in my chair on the hearthstone, if you will.”“什么，你已经起来了？”她说，“那么你好些了。要是你愿意，你可以坐在炉边我的椅子上，”She pointed to the rocking-chair: I took it.  She bustled about, examining me every now and then with the corner of her eye.  Turning to me, as she took some loaves from the oven, she asked bluntly—她指了指那把摇椅。我坐了下来。她忙碌着，不时从眼角瞟我。她一边从烤炉里取出面包，一面转向我生硬地问道：“Did you ever go a-begging afore you came here?”“你到这个地方来之前也讨过饭吗？”I was indignant for a moment; but remembering that anger was out of the question, and that I had indeed appeared as a beggar to her, I answered quietly, but still not without a certain marked firmness—我一时很生气，但想起发火是不行的，何况在她看来我曾像个乞丐，于是便平心静气地回答了她，不过仍带着明显的强硬口气“You are mistaken in supposing me a beggar.  I am no beggar; any more than yourself or your young ladies.”“你错把我当成乞丐了，跟你自己或者你的小姐们一样，我不是什么乞丐。”After a pause she said, “I dunnut understand that: you’ve like no house, nor no brass, I guess?”她顿了一下后说：“那我就不大明白了，你象是既没有房子，也没有铜子儿？”“The want of house or brass (by which I suppose you mean money) does not make a beggar in your sense of the word.”“没有房子或铜子儿（我猜你指的是钱）并不就成了你说的那个意思上的乞丐。”“Are you book-learned?” she inquired presently.“你读过书吗？”她立刻问，“Yes, very.”“是的，读过不少书。”“But you’ve never been to a boarding-school?”“不过你从来没有进过寄宿学校吧？”“I was at a boarding-school eight years.”“我在寄宿学校呆了八年。”She opened her eyes wide.  “Whatever cannot ye keep yourself for, then?”她眼睛睁得大大的。“那你为什么还养不活自己呢？”“I have kept myself; and, I trust, shall keep myself again.  What are you going to do with these gooseberries?” I inquired, as she brought out a basket of the fruit.“我养活了自己，而且我相信以后还能养活自己。拿这些鹅莓干什么呀？”她拎出一篮子鹅莓时我问。“Mak’ ’em into pies.”“做饼。”“Give them to me and I’ll pick them.”“给我吧，我来拣。”“Nay; I dunnut want ye to do nought.”“不，我什么也不要你干。”“But I must do something.  Let me have them.”“但我总得干点什么。还是让我来吧。”She consented; and she even brought me a clean towel to spread over my dress, “lest,” as she said, “I should mucky it.”她同意了，甚至还拿来一块干净的毛巾铺在我衣服上，一面还说：“怕你把衣服弄脏了。”“Ye’ve not been used to sarvant’s wark, I see by your hands,” she remarked.  “Happen ye’ve been a dressmaker?”“你不是干惯佣人活的，从你的手上看得出来，”她说，“也许是个裁缝吧？”“No, you are wrong.  And now, never mind what I have been: don’t trouble your head further about me; but tell me the name of the house where we are.”“不是，你猜错啦，现在别管我以前是干什么的。不要为我再去伤你的脑筋，不过告诉我你们这所房子叫什么名字。”“Some calls it Marsh End, and some calls it Moor House.”“有人叫它沼泽居，有人叫它沼泽宅。”“And the gentleman who lives here is called Mr. St. John?”“住在这儿的那位先生叫圣•约翰先生？”“Nay; he doesn’t live here: he is only staying a while.  When he is at home, he is in his own parish at Morton.”“不，他不住在这儿，只不过暂时呆一下。他的家在自己的教区莫尔顿。”“That village a few miles off?“离这儿几英里的那个村子？”“Aye.”“是呀。”“And what is he?”“他干什么的。”“He is a parson.”“是个牧师。”I remembered the answer of the old housekeeper at the parsonage, when I had asked to see the clergyman.  我还记得我要求见牧师时那所住宅里老管家的回答。“This, then, was his father’s residence?”“那么这里是他父亲的居所了？”“Aye; old Mr. Rivers lived here, and his father, and grandfather, and gurt (great) grandfather afore him.”“不错。老里弗斯先生在这儿住过，还有他父亲，他祖父，他曾祖父。”“The name, then, of that gentleman, is Mr. St. John Rivers?”“那么，那位先生的名字是圣•约翰•里弗斯先生了。”“Aye; St. John is like his kirstened name.”“是呀，圣•约翰是他受洗礼时的名字。”“And his sisters are called Diana and Mary Rivers?”“他的妹妹名叫黛安娜和玛丽．里弗斯？”“Yes.”“是的。”“Their father is dead?”“他们的父亲去世了？”“Dead three weeks sin’ of a stroke.”“三个星期前中风死的。”“They have no mother?”“他们没有母亲吗，”“The mistress has been dead this mony a year.”“太太去世已经多年了。”“Have you lived with the family long?”“你同这家人生活得很久了吗？”“I’ve lived here thirty year.  I nursed them all three.”“我住在这里三十年了，三个人都是我带大的。”“That proves you must have been an honest and faithful servant.  I will say so much for you, though you have had the incivility to call me a beggar.”“那说明你准是个忠厚的仆人。尽管你那么没有礼貌地把我当作乞丐，我还是愿意那么说你的好话。”She again regarded me with a surprised stare.  “I believe,” she said, “I was quite mista’en in my thoughts of you: but there is so mony cheats goes about, you mun forgie me.”她再次诧异地打量着我。“我相信，”她说，“我完全把你看错了，不过这里来往的骗子很多，你得原谅我。”“And though,” I continued, rather severely, “you wished to turn me from the door, on a night when you should not have shut out a dog.”“而且，”我往下说，口气颇有些严厉，“尽管你要在一个连条狗都不该撵走的夜晚，把我赶出门外。”“Well, it was hard: but what can a body do?  I thought more o’ th’ childer nor of mysel: poor things!  They’ve like nobody to tak’ care on ’em but me.  I’m like to look sharpish.”“嗯，是有点狠心。可是叫人怎么办呢？我想得更多的是孩子们而不是我自己，他们也怪可怜的，除了我没有人照应。我总该当心些。”I maintained a grave silence for some minutes.我沉着脸几分钟没有吱声。“You munnut think too hardly of me,” she again remarked.“你别把我想得太坏，”她又说。“But I do think hardly of you,” I said; “and I’ll tell you why—not so much because you refused to give me shelter, or regarded me as an impostor, as because you just now made it a species of reproach that I had no ‘brass’ and no house.  Some of the best people that ever lived have been as destitute as I am; and if you are a Christian, you ought not to consider poverty a crime.”“不过我确实把你想得很坏”，我说，“而且我告诉你为什么——倒不是因为你不许我投宿，或者把我看成了骗子，而是因为你刚才把我没‘铜子儿’没房子当成了一种耻辱。有些在世的好人像我一样穷得一个子儿也没有。如果你是个基督徒，你就不该把贫困看作罪过。”“No more I ought,” said she: “Mr. St. John tells me so too; and I see I wor wrang—but I’ve clear a different notion on you now to what I had.  You look a raight down dacent little crater.”“以后不该这样了，”她说，“圣•约翰先生也是这么同我说的。我知道自己错了一一但是，我现在对你的看法跟以前明显不同了。你看来完全是个体面的小家伙。”“That will do—I forgive you now.  Shake hands.”“那行了——我现在原谅你了，握握手吧。”She put her floury and horny hand into mine; another and heartier smile illumined her rough face, and from that moment we were friends.她把沾了面粉布满老茧的手塞进我手里，她粗糙的脸上闪起了一个更亲切的笑容，从那时起我们便成了朋友。Hannah was evidently fond of talking.  While I picked the fruit, and she made the paste for the pies, she proceeded to give me sundry details about her deceased master and mistress, and “the childer,” as she called the young people.汉娜显然很健谈。我拣果子她捏面团做饼时，她继续细谈着过世的主人和女主人，以及她称作“孩子们”的年轻人。Old Mr. Rivers, she said, was a plain man enough, but a gentleman, and of as ancient a family as could be found.  Marsh End had belonged to the Rivers ever since it was a house: and it was, she affirmed, “aboon two hundred year old—for all it looked but a small, humble place, naught to compare wi’ Mr. Oliver’s grand hall down i’ Morton Vale.  But she could remember Bill Oliver’s father a journeyman needlemaker; and th’ Rivers wor gentry i’ th’ owd days o’ th’ Henrys, as onybody might see by looking into th’ registers i’ Morton Church vestry.”  Still, she allowed, “the owd maister was like other folk—naught mich out o’ t’ common way: stark mad o’ shooting, and farming, and sich like.”  The mistress was different.  She was a great reader, and studied a deal; and the “bairns” had taken after her.  There was nothing like them in these parts, nor ever had been; they had liked learning, all three, almost from the time they could speak; and they had always been “of a mak’ of their own.”  Mr. St. John, when he grew up, would go to college and be a parson; and the girls, as soon as they left school, would seek places as governesses: for they had told her their father had some years ago lost a great deal of money by a man he had trusted turning bankrupt; and as he was now not rich enough to give them fortunes, they must provide for themselves.  They had lived very little at home for a long while, and were only come now to stay a few weeks on account of their father’s death; but they did so like Marsh End and Morton, and all these moors and hills about.  They had been in London, and many other grand towns; but they always said there was no place like home; and then they were so agreeable with each other—never fell out nor “threaped.”  She did not know where there was such a family for being united.她说老里弗斯先生是个极为朴实的人，但是位绅士，出身于一个十分古老的家庭。沼泽居自建成以后就一直属于里弗斯先生，她还肯定，这座房子“已有两百年左右历史了——尽管它看上去不过是个不起眼的小地方，丝毫比不上奥利弗先生在莫尔顿谷的豪华富宅，但我还记得比尔．奥利弗的父亲是个走家穿户的制针人，而里弗斯家族在过去亨利时代都是贵族，看看莫尔顿教堂法衣室记事簿，就谁都知道。”不过她仍认为“老主人像别人一样——并没有太出格，只是完全迷恋于狩猎种田等等。”女主人可不同。她爱读书，而且学得很多。“孩子们”像她。这一带没有人跟他们一样的，以往也没有。三个人都喜欢学习，差不多从能说话的时候起就这样了，他们自己一直“另有一套”。圣•约翰先生长大了就进大学，做起牧师来、而姑娘们一离开学校就去找家庭教师的活，他们告诉她，他们的父亲，几年前由于信托人破产，而丧失了一大笔钱。他现在已不富裕，没法给他们财产，他们就得自谋生计了。好久以来他们已很少住在家里了，这会儿是因为父亲去世才来这里小住几周的。不过他们确实也喜欢沼泽居和莫尔顿，以及附近所有的荒原和小山。他们到过伦敦和其他很多大城市，但总是说什么地方也比不上家里。另外，他们彼此又是那么融洽一—从来不争不吵。她不知道哪里还找得到这样一个和睦的家庭。Having finished my task of gooseberry picking, I asked where the two ladies and their brother were now.我拣完了鹅莓后问她，两位小姐和她们的哥哥上哪儿去了。“Gone over to Morton for a walk; but they would be back in half-an-hour to tea.”“散步上莫尔顿去了，半小时内会回来吃茶点。”They returned within the time Hannah had allotted them: they entered by the kitchen door.  Mr. St. John, when he saw me, merely bowed and passed through; the two ladies stopped: Mary, in a few words, kindly and calmly expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing me well enough to be able to come down; Diana took my hand: she shook her head at me.他们在汉娜规定的时间内回来了，是从厨房门进来的。圣•约翰先生见了我不过点了点头就走过了。两位小姐停了下来。玛丽心平气和地说了几句话，表示很高兴见我己经好到能下楼了。黛安娜握住我的手，对我摇摇头。“You should have waited for my leave to descend,” she said.  “You still look very pale—and so thin!  Poor child!—poor girl!”“你该等我允许后才好下楼，”她说。“你脸色还是很苍白——又那么瘦！可怜的孩子？——可怜的姑娘！”Diana had a voice toned, to my ear, like the cooing of a dove.  She possessed eyes whose gaze I delighted to encounter.  Her whole face seemed to me full of charm.  Mary’s countenance was equally intelligent—her features equally pretty; but her expression was more reserved, and her manners, though gentle, more distant.  Diana looked and spoke with a certain authority: she had a will, evidently.  It was my nature to feel pleasure in yielding to an authority supported like hers, and to bend, where my conscience and self-respect permitted, to an active will.黛安娜的声调在我听来象鸽子的咕咕声。她有一双我很乐意接触她目光的眼睛。她的整张脸似乎都充满魅力。玛丽的面容，一样聪明—一她的五官一样漂亮，但她的表情更加冷淡，她的仪态虽然文雅却更显得隔膜。黛安娜的神态和说话的样子都有一种权威派头，显然很有主意。我生性喜欢服从像她那样有依靠的权威，在我的良心和自尊允许范围内，向富有活力的意志低头。“And what business have you here?” she continued.  “It is not your place.  Mary and I sit in the kitchen sometimes, because at home we like to be free, even to license—but you are a visitor, and must go into the parlour.”“你在这儿干什么？”她继续说。“这不是你呆的地方。玛丽和我有时在厨房里坐坐，因为在家里我们爱随便些，甚至有些放肆——但你是客人，得到客厅去。”“I am very well here.”“我在这儿很舒服。”“Not at all, with Hannah bustling about and covering you with flour.”“一点也不——汉娜这么忙这忙那会把面粉沾在你身上。”“Besides, the fire is too hot for you,” interposed Mary.“另外，火炉对你也有些太热，”玛丽插嘴说。“To be sure,” added her sister.  “Come, you must be obedient.”  And still holding my hand she made me rise, and led me into the inner room.“没有错，”她姐姐补充说。“来吧，你得听话。”她一面握着我的手一面拉我起来，领进内室。“Sit there,” she said, placing me on the sofa, “while we take our things off and get the tea ready; it is another privilege we exercise in our little moorland home—to prepare our own meals when we are so inclined, or when Hannah is baking, brewing, washing, or ironing.”“那儿坐着吧，”她说着把我安顿在沙发上，“我们来脱掉衣服，准备好茶点。在沼泽居小家庭中享受的另一个特权，是自己准备饭菜，那往往是想要这么干，或者汉娜忙着烘烤，调制、烫衣的时候，”She closed the door, leaving me solus with Mr. St. John, who sat opposite, a book or newspaper in his hand.  I examined first, the parlour, and then its occupant.她关了门，留下我与圣•约翰先生单独呆着。他坐在我对面，手里捧着一本书或一张报纸。我先是打量了一下客厅。随后再看看厅主人。The parlour was rather a small room, very plainly furnished, yet comfortable, because clean and neat.  The old-fashioned chairs were very bright, and the walnut-wood table was like a looking-glass.  A few strange, antique portraits of the men and women of other days decorated the stained walls; a cupboard with glass doors contained some books and an ancient set of china.  There was no superfluous ornament in the room—not one modern piece of furniture, save a brace of workboxes and a lady’s desk in rosewood, which stood on a side-table: everything—including the carpet and curtains—looked at once well worn and well saved.客厅不大，陈设也很朴实，但于净整洁十分舒服。老式椅子油光锃亮，那张胡桃木桌子象面穿衣镜。斑驳的墙上装饰着几张过去时代奇怪而古老的男女画像。在一个装有玻璃门的橱里，放着几本书和一套古瓷器。除了放在书桌上的—对针线盒和青龙木女用书台，房间里没有多余的装饰品——没有一件现代家具。包括地毯和窗帘在内的一切，看上去既陈旧而又保养得很好。Mr. St. John—sitting as still as one of the dusty pictures on the walls, keeping his eyes fixed on the page he perused, and his lips mutely sealed—was easy enough to examine.  Had he been a statue instead of a man, he could not have been easier.  He was young—perhaps from twenty-eight to thirty—tall, slender; his face riveted the eye; it was like a Greek face, very pure in outline: quite a straight, classic nose; quite an Athenian mouth and chin.  It is seldom, indeed, an English face comes so near the antique models as did his.  He might well be a little shocked at the irregularity of my lineaments, his own being so harmonious.  His eyes were large and blue, with brown lashes; his high forehead, colourless as ivory, was partially streaked over by careless locks of fair hair.圣•约翰先生——一动不动地坐着，犹如墙上色彩暗淡的画，眼睛盯着他细读着的那页书，嘴唇默默地闭着，——很容易让我细看个究竟，他要是装成塑像，而不是人，那是再容易不过了，他很年青——二十八至三十光景——高挑个子，身材颀长。他的脸引人注目，像一张希腊人的脸，轮廓完美、长着一个笔直的古典式鼻子，一张十足雅典人的嘴和下巴。说实在，英国人的脸很少像他那样如此酷似古典脸型的。他自己的五官那么匀称，也许对我的不匀称便有点儿吃惊了。他的眼睛又大又蓝，长着棕色的睫毛，高高的额头跟象牙一般苍白，额头上不经意披下了几绺金色的头发。This is a gentle delineation, is it not, reader?  Yet he whom it describes scarcely impressed one with the idea of a gentle, a yielding, an impressible, or even of a placid nature.  Quiescent as he now sat, there was something about his nostril, his mouth, his brow, which, to my perceptions, indicated elements within either restless, or hard, or eager.  He did not speak to me one word, nor even direct to me one glance, till his sisters returned.  Diana, as she passed in and out, in the course of preparing tea, brought me a little cake, baked on the top of the oven.这是一幅线条柔和的写生，是不是，读者？然而画中的人给人的印象却并不属于那种温和忍让、容易打动甚至十分平静的个性。虽然他此刻默默地坐着，但我觉察到，他的鼻孔、嘴巴、额头有着某种东西，表现出内心的不安、冷酷或急切。他的妹妹们回来之前、他还没有同我说过一个字，或者朝我看过一眼。黛安娜走进走出，准备着茶点，给我带来了一块在炉顶上烤着的小饼。“Eat that now,” she said: “you must be hungry.  Hannah says you have had nothing but some gruel since breakfast.”“这会儿就把它吃掉吧，”她说、“你准饿了。汉娜说从早饭到现在，你只喝了点粥，什么也没吃。”I did not refuse it, for my appetite was awakened and keen.  Mr. Rivers now closed his book, approached the table, and, as he took a seat, fixed his blue pictorial-looking eyes full on me.  There was an unceremonious directness, a searching, decided steadfastness in his gaze now, which told that intention, and not diffidence, had hitherto kept it averted from the stranger.我没有谢绝，我的胃口恢复了，而且很好，这时里弗斯先生合上书，走到桌子旁边。他就座时，那双画一般的蓝眼晴紧盯着我。目光里有一种不拘礼节的直率，一种锐利、明确的坚定，说明他一直避开陌生人不是出于腼腆，而是故意的。“You are very hungry,” he said.“你很饿，”他说。“I am, sir.”  It is my way—it always was my way, by instinct—ever to meet the brief with brevity, the direct with plainness.“是的，先生。”这是我的习惯——向来的习惯，完全是直觉—一简问简答，直问直说。“It is well for you that a low fever has forced you to abstain for the last three days: there would have been danger in yielding to the cravings of your appetite at first.  Now you may eat, though still not immoderately.”“幸好三天来的低烧迫使你禁食，要是一开始便放开肚子吃就危险了。现在你可以吃了，不过还是得节制。”“I trust I shall not eat long at your expense, sir,” was my very clumsily-contrived, unpolished answer.“我相信不会花你的钱吃得很久的，先生，”这是我笨嘴笨舌、粗里粗气的回答。“No,” he said coolly: “when you have indicated to us the residence of your friends, we can write to them, and you may be restored to home.”“不，”他冷冷地说：“等你把朋友的住址告诉我们后，我们可以写信给他们，你就又可以回家了。”“That, I must plainly tell you, is out of my power to do; being absolutely without home and friends.”“我得直率地告诉你们，我没有能力这么做，因为我既没有家，也没有朋友。”The three looked at me, but not distrustfully; I felt there was no suspicion in their glances: there was more of curiosity.  I speak particularly of the young ladies.  St. John’s eyes, though clear enough in a literal sense, in a figurative one were difficult to fathom.  He seemed to use them rather as instruments to search other people’s thoughts, than as agents to reveal his own: the which combination of keenness and reserve was considerably more calculated to embarrass than to encourage.三位都看着我，但并非不信任。我觉得他们的眼神里没有怀疑的表情，而更多的是好奇。我尤其指小姐们。圣•约翰的眼晴表面看来相当明净，但实际上深不可测。他似乎要把它用作探测别人思想的工具，而不是暴露自己内心的窗口。眼神里热情与冷漠的交融，很大程度上不是为了鼓励别人，而是要使人感到窘迫。“Do you mean to say,” he asked, “that you are completely isolated from every connection?”“你的意思是说，”他问，“你孤孤单单，没有一个亲朋？”“I do.  Not a tie links me to any living thing: not a claim do I possess to admittance under any roof in England.”“是的。没有一根纽带把我同哪位活着的人维系在一起，我也没有任何权利走进英国的任何人家里？”“A most singular position at your age!”“像你这样年纪，这种状况是绝无仅有的。”Here I saw his glance directed to my hands, which were folded on the table before me.  I wondered what he sought there: his words soon explained the quest.说到这里我看到他的目光扫到了我手上，这时我双乎交叉，放在面前的桌子上。我不知道他在找什么。但他的话立刻解释了那种探寻。“You have never been married?  You are a spinster?”“你没有结婚？是个单身女人？”Diana laughed.  “Why, she can’t be above seventeen or eighteen years old, St. John,” said she.黛安娜大笑起来。“嗨，她不会超过十七、十八岁，圣•约翰。”她说。“I am near nineteen: but I am not married.  No.”“我快十九了，不过没有结过婚，没有。”I felt a burning glow mount to my face; for bitter and agitating recollections were awakened by the allusion to marriage.  They all saw the embarrassment and the emotion.  Diana and Mary relieved me by turning their eyes elsewhere than to my crimsoned visage; but the colder and sterner brother continued to gaze, till the trouble he had excited forced out tears as well as colour.我只觉得脸上—阵热辣辣的火烧，一提起结婚又勾起了我痛苦和兴奋的回忆。他们都看出了我的发窘和激动。黛安娜和玛丽把目光从我涨得通红的脸上转向别处，以便使我得到宽慰，但是她们那位有些冷漠和严厉的哥哥却继续盯着我，直至他引起的麻烦弄得我既流泪又变脸，“Where did you last reside?” he now asked.“你以前住在什么地方，”他此刻又问了。“You are too inquisitive, St. John,” murmured Mary in a low voice; but he leaned over the table and required an answer by a second firm and piercing look.“你也太爱打听了，圣•约翰，”玛丽低声咕哝着。但他带着诱人肺腑的坚定的眼光，将身子俯过桌子，要求得到回答。“The name of the place where, and of the person with whom I lived, is my secret,” I replied concisely.“我住在哪儿，跟谁住在一起，这是我的秘密，”我回答得很简略。“Which, if you like, you have, in my opinion, a right to keep, both from St. John and every other questioner,” remarked Diana.“在我看来，要是你高兴，不管是圣•约翰还是其他人的提问，你都有权不说，”黛安娜回答说。“Yet if I know nothing about you or your history, I cannot help you,” he said.  “And you need help, do you not?”“不过要是我不了解你和你的身世，我无法帮助你，”他说。“而你是需要帮助的，是不是？”“I need it, and I seek it so far, sir, that some true philanthropist will put me in the way of getting work which I can do, and the remuneration for which will keep me, if but in the barest necessaries of life.”“到现在为止我需要帮助，也寻求帮助，先生——希望某个真正的慈善家会让我有一份力所能及的工作，以及让我把日子过下去的报酬，就是能满足生活的必需也好。”“I know not whether I am a true philanthropist; yet I am willing to aid you to the utmost of my power in a purpose so honest.  First, then, tell me what you have been accustomed to do, and what you can do.”“我不知道自己是不是位真正的慈善家，不过我愿意真诚地竭尽全力帮助你。那么首先你得告诉我，你习惯于干什么，你能干什么。”I had now swallowed my tea.  I was mightily refreshed by the beverage; as much so as a giant with wine: it gave new tone to my unstrung nerves, and enabled me to address this penetrating young judge steadily.这会儿我已经吞下了茶点，饮料使我犹如喝了酒的巨人，精神大为振作，它给我衰弱的神经注入了新的活力，使我能够不慌不忙同这位目光敏锐的年轻法官说话，“Mr. Rivers,” I said, turning to him, and looking at him, as he looked at me, openly and without diffidence, “you and your sisters have done me a great service—the greatest man can do his fellow-being; you have rescued me, by your noble hospitality, from death.  This benefit conferred gives you an unlimited claim on my gratitude, and a claim, to a certain extent, on my confidence.  I will tell you as much of the history of the wanderer you have harboured, as I can tell without compromising my own peace of mind—my own security, moral and physical, and that of others.“里弗斯先生，”我说着转向了他，像他看我那样，堂而皇之毫无羞色地看着他，“你和你的妹妹们己经帮了我很大的忙——一个最伟大的人，能为他的同类所做的，你以你高尚的殷勤，从死亡中拯救了我。你所施予的恩惠，使你绝对有权要求我感激你，并且某种程度上要求知道我的秘密。我会在不损害我心境的平静、自身及他人道德和人身的安全的前提下，尽量把你们所庇护的流浪者的身世说个明白。”“I am an orphan, the daughter of a clergyman.  My parents died before I could know them.  I was brought up a dependant; educated in a charitable institution.  I will even tell you the name of the establishment, where I passed six years as a pupil, and two as a teacher—Lowood Orphan Asylum, ---shire: you will have heard of it, Mr. Rivers?—the Rev. Robert Brocklehurst is the treasurer.”“我是一个孤儿，一个牧师的女儿。我还不能记事父母就去世了。我靠人赡养长大，在一个慈善机构受了教育。我甚至可以告诉你这个机构的名字，在那里我做了六年学生，两年教师一—××郡罗沃德孤儿院，你可能听到过它，里弗斯先主？——罗伯特．布罗克赫斯特牧师是司库。”“I have heard of Mr. Brocklehurst, and I have seen the school.”“我听说过布罗克赫斯特先生，也见过这学校。”“I left Lowood nearly a year since to become a private governess.  I obtained a good situation, and was happy.  This place I was obliged to leave four days before I came here.  The reason of my departure I cannot and ought not to explain: it would be useless, dangerous, and would sound incredible.  No blame attached to me: I am as free from culpability as any one of you three.  Miserable I am, and must be for a time; for the catastrophe which drove me from a house I had found a paradise was of a strange and direful nature.  I observed but two points in planning my departure—speed, secrecy: to secure these, I had to leave behind me everything I possessed except a small parcel; which, in my hurry and trouble of mind, I forgot to take out of the coach that brought me to Whitcross.  To this neighbourhood, then, I came, quite destitute.  I slept two nights in the open air, and wandered about two days without crossing a threshold: but twice in that space of time did I taste food; and it was when brought by hunger, exhaustion, and despair almost to the last gasp, that you, Mr. Rivers, forbade me to perish of want at your door, and took me under the shelter of your roof.  I know all your sisters have done for me since—for I have not been insensible during my seeming torpor—and I owe to their spontaneous, genuine, genial compassion as large a debt as to your evangelical charity.”“差不多一年前我离开了罗沃德，去当私人家庭教师。我得到了一份很好的工作，也很愉快。来这里的四天前，我不得不离开那个地方。离开的原因我不能也不该解释，就是解释也没有用——会招来危险，听起来也难以令人置信。我没有责任，像你们三位中的任何一位那样是无罪的。我很难过，以后一段时间还得这样，因为把我从我看作天堂的房子里赶出来的原因，奇怪而可怕。在计划逃离时我看到了两点——速度和秘密，为了做到这两点，我不得不把我的所有统统留下，只拿了一包裹。就是这个小包裹，我也在匆忙和烦恼中，忘了从把我带到惠特克劳斯的马车上拿下来了。于是我囊空如洗来到这附近。我在露天宿了两夜，游荡了两天，没有跨进过一条门槛，在这段时间只有两回吃过东西。正当我由于饥饿、疲乏和绝望到了几乎只剩最后一口气时，你里弗斯先生，不让我饿死冻死在家门口，把我收留进你们的房子。我知道从那时起你妹妹们为我所做的一切——因为在我外表上麻木迟钝的那些日子里，我并不是没有感觉的——我对你们自然、真诚、亲切的怜悯，如同对你合乎福音的慈善，欠下了一笔很大的债。”“Don’t make her talk any more now, St. John,” said Diana, as I paused; “she is evidently not yet fit for excitement.  Come to the sofa and sit down now, Miss Elliott.”“这会儿别要她再谈下去了，圣•约翰，”我停下来时黛安娜说。“显然她不宜激动，上沙发这儿来，坐下吧，爱略特小姐。”I gave an involuntary half start at hearing the alias: I had forgotten my new name.  Mr. Rivers, whom nothing seemed to escape, noticed it at once.一听这个别名，我不由自主地微微一惊，我己忘了我新起的名字。但什么都逃不过他眼睛的里弗斯先生，立刻注意到了。“You said your name was Jane Elliott?” he observed.“你说你的名字叫简•爱略特是吗？”他说，“I did say so; and it is the name by which I think it expedient to be called at present, but it is not my real name, and when I hear it, it sounds strange to me.”“我是这么说过的，这个名字，我想是作为权宜之计暂时用用的，但不是我的真名、所以初一听有些陌生。”“Your real name you will not give?”“你不愿讲你的真名，”“No: I fear discovery above all things; and whatever disclosure would lead to it, I avoid.”“不愿。我尤其担心被人发现。凡是要导致这种后果的事，我都要避开，”“You are quite right, I am sure,” said Diana.  “Now do, brother, let her be at peace a while.”“我敢肯定你做得很对，”黛安娜说。“现在，哥哥，一定得让她安宁，一会儿了。”But when St. John had mused a few moments he recommenced as imperturbably and with as much acumen as ever.但是，圣•约翰静默了一会儿后，又开腔了，还是像刚才那样目光敏锐，不慌不忙。“You would not like to be long dependent on our hospitality—you would wish, I see, to dispense as soon as may be with my sisters’ compassion, and, above all, with my charity (I am quite sensible of the distinction drawn, nor do I resent it—it is just): you desire to be independent of us?”“你不愿长期依赖我们的好客吧—一我看你会希望尽快摆脱我妹妹们的怜悯，尤其是我的慈善（我对他的强调很敏感，但也不生气——因为那是正当的），你希望不依赖我们吗？”“I do: I have already said so.  Show me how to work, or how to seek work: that is all I now ask; then let me go, if it be but to the meanest cottage; but till then, allow me to stay here: I dread another essay of the horrors of homeless destitution.”“是的。我已经这么说过了。告诉我怎么干活，或者怎么找活干，这就是我现在所要求的，然后我走，即使是到最简陋的草屋去———但在那之前，请让我呆在这儿，我害怕再去品尝无家可归饥寒交迫的恐怖。”“Indeed you shall stay here,” said Diana, putting her white hand on my head.  “You shall,” repeated Mary, in the tone of undemonstrative sincerity which seemed natural to her.“说实在你应当留在这儿，”黛安娜把她白皙的手搭在我头上说。“你应当这样，”玛丽重复说，口气里透出了含蓄的真诚，这在她似乎是自然的流露。“My sisters, you see, have a pleasure in keeping you,” said Mr. St. John, “as they would have a pleasure in keeping and cherishing a half-frozen bird, some wintry wind might have driven through their casement.  I feel more inclination to put you in the way of keeping yourself, and shall endeavour to do so; but observe, my sphere is narrow.  I am but the incumbent of a poor country parish: my aid must be of the humblest sort.  And if you are inclined to despise the day of small things, seek some more efficient succour than such as I can offer.”“你瞧，我的妹妹们很乐意收留你，”圣•约翰先生说，“就像乐意收留和抚育一只被寒风驱赶到了窗前，快要冻僵的鸟一样。我更倾向于让你自己养活自己，而且要努力这样做。但是请注意，我的活动范围很窄，不过是个贫苦乡村教区的牧师。我的帮助肯定是最微不足道的。要是你不屑于干日常琐事，那就去寻找比我所能提供的更有效的帮助吧。”“She has already said that she is willing to do anything honest she can do,” answered Diana for me; “and you know, St. John, she has no choice of helpers: she is forced to put up with such crusty people as you.”“她已经说过，凡是力所能及的正当活儿，她都愿意干。”黛安娜替我作了回答。“而且你知道，圣•约翰，她无法挑谁来帮忙，连你这种犟脾气的人，她也不得不忍受。”“I will be a dressmaker; I will be a plain-workwoman; I will be a servant, a nurse-girl, if I can be no better,” I answered.“我可以当个裁缝，我可以当个普通女工，要是干不了更好的活，我可以当个仆人，做个护理女。”我回答。“Right,” said Mr. St. John, quite coolly.  “If such is your spirit, I promise to aid you, in my own time and way.”“行，”圣•约翰先生十分冷淡地说。“如果你有这志气，我就答应帮你忙了，用我自己的时间，按我自己的方式。”He now resumed the book with which he had been occupied before tea.  I soon withdrew, for I had talked as much, and sat up as long, as my present strength would permit.这时他又继续看他那本茶点之前就已埋头在看的书了。我立刻退了出去，因为就眼下体力所及，我已经谈得够多，坐得够长了。CHAPTER XXX第三十章The more I knew of the inmates of Moor House, the better I liked them.  In a few days I had so far recovered my health that I could sit up all day, and walk out sometimes.  I could join with Diana and Mary in all their occupations; converse with them as much as they wished, and aid them when and where they would allow me.  There was a reviving pleasure in this intercourse, of a kind now tasted by me for the first time—the pleasure arising from perfect congeniality of tastes, sentiments, and principles.我越了解沼泽居的人就越是喜欢他们。不到几天工夫，我的身体便很快地恢复，已经可以整天坐着，有时还能出去走走。我已能参加黛安娜和玛丽的一切活动，她们爱谈多久就谈多久，什么时候，什么地方，只要她们允许，就去帮忙。在这些交往中，有一种令人振奋的愉悦—一在我还是第一次体会到—一这种愉悦产生于趣味、情调和原则的融洽。I liked to read what they liked to read: what they enjoyed, delighted me; what they approved, I reverenced.  They loved their sequestered home.  I, too, in the grey, small, antique structure, with its low roof, its latticed casements, its mouldering walls, its avenue of aged firs—all grown aslant under the stress of mountain winds; its garden, dark with yew and holly—and where no flowers but of the hardiest species would bloom—found a charm both potent and permanent.  They clung to the purple moors behind and around their dwelling—to the hollow vale into which the pebbly bridle-path leading from their gate descended, and which wound between fern-banks first, and then amongst a few of the wildest little pasture-fields that ever bordered a wilderness of heath, or gave sustenance to a flock of grey moorland sheep, with their little mossy-faced lambs:—they clung to this scene, I say, with a perfect enthusiasm of attachment.  I could comprehend the feeling, and share both its strength and truth.  I saw the fascination of the locality.  I felt the consecration of its loneliness: my eye feasted on the outline of swell and sweep—on the wild colouring communicated to ridge and dell by moss, by heath-bell, by flower-sprinkled turf, by brilliant bracken, and mellow granite crag.  These details were just to me what they were to them—so many pure and sweet sources of pleasure.  The strong blast and the soft breeze; the rough and the halcyon day; the hours of sunrise and sunset; the moonlight and the clouded night, developed for me, in these regions, the same attraction as for them—wound round my faculties the same spell that entranced theirs.我爱读她们喜欢读的书，她们所欣赏的使我感到愉快，她们所赞同的我也尊重。她们喜欢这个与世隔绝的家，我也在灰色、古老、小巧的建筑中找到了巨大而永久的魅力。这里有低矮的屋顶、带格子的窗户、消蚀的小径和古杉夹道的大路——强劲的山风使这些古杉都已倾斜。还有长着紫杉和冬青而呈黑色的花园一—这里除了顽强的花种，什么花都不开放。她们眷恋住宅后面和周围紫色的荒原一—眷恋凹陷的溪谷。一条鹅卵石筑成的马道，从大门口由高而低通向那里，先在蔽树丛生的两岸之间蜿蜒着，随后又经过与欧石南荒原交界的几个最荒芜的小牧场。一群灰色的荒原羊和苔藓般面孔的羊羔，都靠这些牧场来维持生命——嗨，她们热情满怀地眷恋着这番景色。我能理解她们的感情，同她们一样感受这个地方的力量与真谛，我看到了这—带诱人的魅力，体会到它所奉献的孤寂。我的眼目尽情地享受着起伏的荒原，享受着山脊上与山谷中由青苔、灰色欧石南、小花点点的草地、鲜艳夺目的欧洲蕨和颜色柔和的花岗岩所形成的荒野色彩。这些点滴景物之于我如同之于她们一—都是无数纯洁可爱的快乐源泉。猛烈的狂风和柔和的微风、凄风苦雨的天气和平平静静的日子、日出时分和日落时刻、月光皎洁的夜晚和乌云密布的黑夜，都使我同他们一样深为这个地区所吸引，都对我如同对他们一样，产生了一种魔力。Indoors we agreed equally well.  They were both more accomplished and better read than I was; but with eagerness I followed in the path of knowledge they had trodden before me.  I devoured the books they lent me: then it was full satisfaction to discuss with them in the evening what I had perused during the day.  Thought fitted thought; opinion met opinion: we coincided, in short, perfectly.在家里我们一样相处得很融洽。她们比我更有造诣，读的书也更多。但是我急切地走着她们在我前面踩踏出来的知识之路。我狼吞虎咽地读着他们借给我的书，而夜晚与她们切磋我白天读过的书是—种极大的满足。我们想法一致，观点相合，总之大家意气相投。If in our trio there was a superior and a leader, it was Diana.  Physically, she far excelled me: she was handsome; she was vigorous.  In her animal spirits there was an affluence of life and certainty of flow, such as excited my wonder, while it baffled my comprehension.  I could talk a while when the evening commenced, but the first gush of vivacity and fluency gone, I was fain to sit on a stool at Diana’s feet, to rest my head on her knee, and listen alternately to her and Mary, while they sounded thoroughly the topic on which I had but touched.  Diana offered to teach me German.  I liked to learn of her: I saw the part of instructress pleased and suited her; that of scholar pleased and suited me no less.  Our natures dovetailed: mutual affection—of the strongest kind—was the result.  They discovered I could draw: their pencils and colour-boxes were immediately at my service.  My skill, greater in this one point than theirs, surprised and charmed them.  Mary would sit and watch me by the hour together: then she would take lessons; and a docile, intelligent, assiduous pupil she made.  Thus occupied, and mutually entertained, days passed like hours, and weeks like days.如果我们三人中有一位更出色者和领袖，那就是黛安娜。体态上她远胜于我，漂亮而精力过人，活泼而有生气，流动着一种使我为之惊异又难以理解的丰富的生命力，夜晚的最初时刻，我还能谈一会儿，但第一阵子轻松自如的谈话之后，我便只好坐在黛安娜脚边的矮凳上，把头靠在她膝头上，轮流听着她和玛丽深谈着我只触及了皮毛的话题。黛安娜愿意教我德语，我喜欢跟她学。我发觉教师的角色很适合她，使她高兴，而同样学生的角色也适合我，使我高兴。我们的个性十分吻合，结果彼此之间感情深厚。她们知道我能作画，就立刻把铅笔和颜料盒供我使用。这项唯一胜过她们的技能，使她们感到惊奇，也让她们着了迷。我绘画时玛丽会坐着看我作画，随后也学了起来，而且是位聪明、听话、用功的学生。就这样忙这忙那，彼此都得到了乐趣，一周的日子像一天，一天的时间像一小时那么过去了。As to Mr. St John, the intimacy which had arisen so naturally and rapidly between me and his sisters did not extend to him.  One reason of the distance yet observed between us was, that he was comparatively seldom at home: a large proportion of his time appeared devoted to visiting the sick and poor among the scattered population of his parish.至于圣•约翰先生，我与他妹妹之间自然而迅速形成的亲密无间的感情，与他无缘。我们之间显得疏远的一个原因，是他难得在家，一大部份时间都奔忙于他教区分散的居民之间，走访病人和穷人。No weather seemed to hinder him in these pastoral excursions: rain or fair, he would, when his hours of morning study were over, take his hat, and, followed by his father’s old pointer, Carlo, go out on his mission of love or duty—I scarcely know in which light he regarded it.  Sometimes, when the day was very unfavourable, his sisters would expostulate.  He would then say, with a peculiar smile, more solemn than cheerful—任何天气似乎都阻挡不住牧师的短途行程。不管晴天还是雨天，每天早晨的学习时间一结束，他会戴上帽子，带着他父亲的老猎狗卡罗，出门开始了出于爱好或是职责的使命——我几乎不知道他怎样看待它。天气很糟的时候妹妹们会劝他别去，但他脸上浮起了庄严甚于愉快的笑容说：“And if I let a gust of wind or a sprinkling of rain turn me aside from these easy tasks, what preparation would such sloth be for the future I propose to myself?”“要是一阵风和几滴雨就弄得我放弃这些轻而易举的工作，那么这样懒懒散散，又怎么能为我设想的未来作准备呢？”Diana and Mary’s general answer to this question was a sigh, and some minutes of apparently mournful meditation.黛安娜和玛丽对这个问题的回答，往往是一声叹息和几分钟明显伤心的沉默。But besides his frequent absences, there was another barrier to friendship with him: he seemed of a reserved, an abstracted, and even of a brooding nature.  Zealous in his ministerial labours, blameless in his life and habits, he yet did not appear to enjoy that mental serenity, that inward content, which should be the reward of every sincere Christian and practical philanthropist.  Often, of an evening, when he sat at the window, his desk and papers before him, he would cease reading or writing, rest his chin on his hand, and deliver himself up to I know not what course of thought; but that it was perturbed and exciting might be seen in the frequent flash and changeful dilation of his eye.但是除了因为他频繁外出之外，还有另一大障碍使我无法与他建立友情。他似乎是个生性寡言少语、心不在焉、沉思默想的人，尽管他对牧师工作非常热情，生活习惯上也无可指摘，但他好像并没有享受到每个虔诚的基督徒和脚踏实地的慈善家应得的酬报：内心的宁静和满足。晚上，他常常坐在窗前，对着面前的书桌和纸张会停止阅读和写作，把下巴靠在手上，任自己的思绪不知向什么方向飘忽，但显得局促不安，从他眼睛频繁的闪烁和变幻莫测的张合中，可以看到兴奋与激动。I think, moreover, that Nature was not to him that treasury of delight it was to his sisters.  He expressed once, and but once in my hearing, a strong sense of the rugged charm of the hills, and an inborn affection for the dark roof and hoary walls he called his home; but there was more of gloom than pleasure in the tone and words in which the sentiment was manifested; and never did he seem to roam the moors for the sake of their soothing silence—never seek out or dwell upon the thousand peaceful delights they could yield.此外，我认为大自然对于他并不像对于她妹妹那样是快乐的源泉。我听到过一次，也只有—次，他表示自己被崎岖的小山深深地迷住了，同时对被他称之为自己家的黑色屋顶和灰白的墙壁，怀着一种眷恋之情。但是在表达这种情感的音调和语言中，隐含的忧郁甚于愉快。而且他从来没有因为要感受一下荒原舒心的字静而漫步其中，—一从来没有去发现或谈及荒原给人千百种平静的乐趣。Incommunicative as he was, some time elapsed before I had an opportunity of gauging his mind.  I first got an idea of its calibre when I heard him preach in his own church at Morton.  I wish I could describe that sermon: but it is past my power.  I cannot even render faithfully the effect it produced on me.由于他不爱交际，我过了一些时候才有机会探究他的思想。我听了他在莫尔顿自己的教堂讲道后，对他的能力有了初步的了解。我希望能描绘一下他那次讲道，但无能为力，我甚至无法确切表达它给我的印象。It began calm—and indeed, as far as delivery and pitch of voice went, it was calm to the end: an earnestly felt, yet strictly restrained zeal breathed soon in the distinct accents, and prompted the nervous language.  This grew to force—compressed, condensed, controlled.  The heart was thrilled, the mind astonished, by the power of the preacher: neither were softened.  Throughout there was a strange bitterness; an absence of consolatory gentleness; stern allusions to Calvinistic doctrines—election, predestination, reprobation—were frequent; and each reference to these points sounded like a sentence pronounced for doom.  When he had done, instead of feeling better, calmer, more enlightened by his discourse, I experienced an inexpressible sadness; for it seemed to me—I know not whether equally so to others—that the eloquence to which I had been listening had sprung from a depth where lay turbid dregs of disappointment—where moved troubling impulses of insatiate yearnings and disquieting aspirations.  I was sure St. John Rivers—pure-lived, conscientious, zealous as he was—had not yet found that peace of God which passeth all understanding: he had no more found it, I thought, than had I with my concealed and racking regrets for my broken idol and lost elysium—regrets to which I have latterly avoided referring, but which possessed me and tyrannised over me ruthlessly.开头很平静一—其实，以讲演的风格和语调而言，那是自始至终很平静的。一种发自肺腑而严加控制的热情，很快注进了清晰的语调，激发起了生动的语言，话渐渐地变得有力起来——简练、浓缩而有分寸。牧师的力量使人内心为之震颤，头脑为之惊异，但两者都没有被感化。他的讲演自始至终有着一种奇怪的痛苦，缺乏一种抚慰人的温柔。他不断严厉地提到加尔文主义——上帝的选拔、命定和天罚，每次的提醒听起来仿佛是在宣布末日的来临。布道结束以后，我不是受到他讲演的启发，感觉更好更平静了，而是体会到了一种难以言喻的哀伤。因为我似乎觉得——我不知道别人是不是有同样感觉——我所倾听的雄辩，出自于充满混浊的失望之渣的心灵深处—一那里躁动着无法满足的愿望和不安的憧憬。我确信圣•约翰•里弗斯尽管生活单纯，又真诚热情，却并没有找到不可理解的上帝的安宁。我想他与我一样，都没有找到。我是因为打碎了偶像，失去了天堂而产生了隐蔽而焦躁不安的悔恨一—这些悔恨我虽然最近已避而不谈，但仍无情地纠缠着、威压着我。Meantime a month was gone.  Diana and Mary were soon to leave Moor House, and return to the far different life and scene which awaited them, as governesses in a large, fashionable, south-of-England city, where each held a situation in families by whose wealthy and haughty members they were regarded only as humble dependants, and who neither knew nor sought out their innate excellences, and appreciated only their acquired accomplishments as they appreciated the skill of their cook or the taste of their waiting-woman.  Mr. St. John had said nothing to me yet about the employment he had promised to obtain for me; yet it became urgent that I should have a vocation of some kind.  One morning, being left alone with him a few minutes in the parlour, I ventured to approach the window-recess—which his table, chair, and desk consecrated as a kind of study—and I was going to speak, though not very well knowing in what words to frame my inquiry—for it is at all times difficult to break the ice of reserve glassing over such natures as his—when he saved me the trouble by being the first to commence a dialogue.与此同时，一个月过去了。黛安娜和玛丽不久就离开沼泽居，回到等待着的截然不同的生活环境中去，在英国南部一个时髦的城市当家庭教师。她们各自在别人家里谋职，被富有而高傲的家庭成员们视为低下的附庸。这些人既不了解也不去发现她们内在的美德，而只赏识她们已经获得的技艺，如同赏识他们厨师的手艺和侍女的情趣。圣•约翰先生一句也没有说起答应帮我找的工作，而对我来说谋个职业已是迫在眉睫的事了。一天早晨，我与他单独在客厅里呆了几分钟，我冒昧地走近窗子的凹陷处——他的桌子、椅子和书桌已使这里成了个书房——我正要开口，尽管还不十分明白该用怎样的措词把问题提出来——因为无论何时要打破包裹着他这种性格的拘谨外壳，都是十分困难的一—他省了我麻烦，先开口了。Looking up as I drew near—“You have a question to ask of me?” he said.我走近时他抬起头来，“你有问题要问我吗，”他说。“Yes; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can offer myself to undertake?”“是的，我想知道一下你是否听到过什么我能够做的工作。”“I found or devised something for you three weeks ago; but as you seemed both useful and happy here—as my sisters had evidently become attached to you, and your society gave them unusual pleasure—I deemed it inexpedient to break in on your mutual comfort till their approaching departure from Marsh End should render yours necessary.”“三个星期前我找到了或是替你设计了某个工作，但你在这里似乎既很有用处，自己又很愉快——我的妹妹们显然同你形影不离，有你作伴她们格外开心一—我觉得妨碍你们彼此所感到的快慰是不适宜的，还是等她们快要离开沼泽居因而你也有必要离开时再说。”“And they will go in three days now?” I said.“现在她们三天后就要走了：”我说。“Yes; and when they go, I shall return to the parsonage at Morton: Hannah will accompany me; and this old house will be shut up.”“是呀，她们一走我就要回到莫尔顿的牧师住所去，汉娜随我走，这所老房子要关闭。”I waited a few moments, expecting he would go on with the subject first broached: but he seemed to have entered another train of reflection: his look denoted abstraction from me and my business.  I was obliged to recall him to a theme which was of necessity one of close and anxious interest to me.我等了一会儿，以为他会继续他首次提出的话题，但他似乎已另有所思。他明显走了神，忘了我和我的事儿。我不得不把他拉回出于需要已成为我最迫切最关心的话题。“What is the employment you had in view, Mr. Rivers?  I hope this delay will not have increased the difficulty of securing it.”“你想到了什么工作，里弗斯先生？我希望这次拖延不至于增加谋职的难度。”“Oh, no; since it is an employment which depends only on me to give, and you to accept.”“呵，不会。既然这项工作只决定于我来提供，你来接受。”He again paused: there seemed a reluctance to continue.  I grew impatient: a restless movement or two, and an eager and exacting glance fastened on his face, conveyed the feeling to him as effectually as words could have done, and with less trouble.他又不吱声了，仿佛不愿再继续说下去。我有些耐不住了，——两个不安的动作以及一个急切而严厉的眼神落在他脸上，向他表达了同语言一样有效，但省却了不少麻烦的情感。“You need be in no hurry to hear,” he said: “let me frankly tell you, I have nothing eligible or profitable to suggest.  Before I explain, recall, if you please, my notice, clearly given, that if I helped you, it must be as the blind man would help the lame.  I am poor; for I find that, when I have paid my father’s debts, all the patrimony remaining to me will be this crumbling grange, the row of scathed firs behind, and the patch of moorish soil, with the yew-trees and holly-bushes in front.  I am obscure: Rivers is an old name; but of the three sole descendants of the race, two earn the dependant’s crust among strangers, and the third considers himself an alien from his native country—not only for life, but in death.  Yes, and deems, and is bound to deem, himself honoured by the lot, and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders, and when the Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one, shall give the word, ‘Rise, follow Me!’”“你不必急于听到，”他说，“坦率告诉你吧，我没有什么合适的或是挣钱的工作可以建议。我解释之前，请回忆一下，我明明白白地向你打过招呼，要是我帮你，那得是瞎子帮助跛子。我很穷，因为我发现偿付了父亲的债务后，父亲留给我的全部遗产就只有这个摇摇欲坠的田庄，庄后一排枯萎的杉树，一片前面长着紫杉和冬青灌木的荒土。我出身卑微，里弗斯是个古老的名字。但这个族的三个仅存的后裔，两个在陌生人中间依赖他人为生，第三个认为自己是远离故土的异乡人——活着和死了都是如此。是的，他认为，必然认为这样的命运是他的光荣，他盼望有朝一日摆脱尘世束缚的十字架会放在他肩上，那位自己也是最卑微一员的教会斗士的首领会传下号令：起来，跟着我？”St. John said these words as he pronounced his sermons, with a quiet, deep voice; with an unflushed cheek, and a coruscating radiance of glance.  He resumed—圣•约翰像布道一样说着这些话，语调平静而深沉，脸不发红，目光炯炯。他继续说：“And since I am myself poor and obscure, I can offer you but a service of poverty and obscurity.  You may even think it degrading—for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined: your tastes lean to the ideal, and your society has at least been amongst the educated; but I consider that no service degrades which can better our race.  I hold that the more arid and unreclaimed the soil where the Christian labourer’s task of tillage is appointed him—the scantier the meed his toil brings—the higher the honour.  His, under such circumstances, is the destiny of the pioneer; and the first pioneers of the Gospel were the Apostles—their captain was Jesus, the Redeemer, Himself.”“既然我自己也贫穷卑微，我只能向你提供贫穷卑微的工作，你甚至可能认为这很低俗——因为我现在知道你的举止属于世人所说的高雅；你的情趣倾向于理想化；你所交往的至少是受过教育的人，——但我认为凡是有益于人类进步的工作都不能说低俗。越是贫瘠和没有开垦的土地，基督教徒越是要承担去那儿开垦的使命一一他的劳动所挣得的报酬越少，他的荣誉就越高。在这种情况下，他的命运就是先驱者的命运，传播福音的第一批先驱者就是使徒们——他们的首领就是耶稣，他本人就是救世主。”“Well?” I said, as he again paused—“proceed.”“嗯？”他再次停下时我说一—“说下去。”He looked at me before he proceeded: indeed, he seemed leisurely to read my face, as if its features and lines were characters on a page.  The conclusions drawn from this scrutiny he partially expressed in his succeeding observations.他还没有说下去便又瞧了瞧我，似乎悠闲地读着我的面孔，仿佛它的五官和线条是一页书上的人物。他仔细打量后所得出的结论，部份地表露在后来的谈话中。“I believe you will accept the post I offer you,” said he, “and hold it for a while: not permanently, though: any more than I could permanently keep the narrow and narrowing—the tranquil, hidden office of English country incumbent; for in your nature is an alloy as detrimental to repose as that in mine, though of a different kind.”“我相信你会接受我提供的职位，”他说，“而且会干一会儿，尽管不会永久干下去，就像我不会永久担任英国乡村牧师这狭隘，使人越来越狭隘——平静而神秘的职位。因为你的性格也像我的一样，有一种不安分的东西，尽管本质上有所区别。”“Do explain,” I urged, when he halted once more.“请务必解释一下，”他再次停下来时我催促道。“I will; and you shall hear how poor the proposal is,—how trivial—how cramping.  I shall not stay long at Morton, now that my father is dead, and that I am my own master.  I shall leave the place probably in the course of a twelve-month; but while I do stay, I will exert myself to the utmost for its improvement.  Morton, when I came to it two years ago, had no school: the children of the poor were excluded from every hope of progress.  I established one for boys: I mean now to open a second school for girls.  I have hired a building for the purpose, with a cottage of two rooms attached to it for the mistress’s house.  Her salary will be thirty pounds a year: her house is already furnished, very simply, but sufficiently, by the kindness of a lady, Miss Oliver; the only daughter of the sole rich man in my parish—Mr. Oliver, the proprietor of a needle-factory and iron-foundry in the valley.  The same lady pays for the education and clothing of an orphan from the workhouse, on condition that she shall aid the mistress in such menial offices connected with her own house and the school as her occupation of teaching will prevent her having time to discharge in person.  Will you be this mistress?”“一定。你会听到这工作多么可怜——多么琐碎——多么束缚人。我父亲已去世，我自己也就独立了，所以我不会在莫尔顿久待。我很可能在一年之内离开这个地方，但我还在时，我要竭尽全力使它有所改进。两年前我来到时，莫尔顿没有学校，穷人的孩子都被排除在一切渴求上进的希望之外，我为男孩子们建立了一所学校。现在我有意为女孩子开设第二所学校。我已租了一幢楼用于这个目的，附带两间破屋作为女教师的住房。她的工资为三十镑一年，她的房子已安上家具，虽然简陋，但已够用，那是奥利弗小姐做的好事，她是我教区内唯一的一位富人奥利弗先生的独生女，奥利弗先生是山谷中制针厂和铁铸厂的业主。这位女士还为一个从济贫院来的孤儿付教育费和服装费，条件是这位孤儿得协助教师，干些跟她住所和学校有关的琐碎事务，因为教学工作不允许女教师亲自来过问。你愿意做这样一位教师吗？”He put the question rather hurriedly; he seemed half to expect an indignant, or at least a disdainful rejection of the offer: not knowing all my thoughts and feelings, though guessing some, he could not tell in what light the lot would appear to me.  In truth it was humble—but then it was sheltered, and I wanted a safe asylum: it was plodding—but then, compared with that of a governess in a rich house, it was independent; and the fear of servitude with strangers entered my soul like iron: it was not ignoble—not unworthy—not mentally degrading, I made my decision.他的问题问得有些匆忙。他似乎估计这个建议多半会遭到愤怒的，或者至少轻蔑的拒绝。他虽然可以作些猜测，但不完全了解我的思想和感情，无法判断我会怎样看待自己的命运。说实在，这工作很低下——但提供了住所，而我需要一个安全的避难所。这工作沉闷乏味—一但比之富人家庭的女教师，它却是无拘无束的。而替陌生人操劳的恐惧象铁钳一样夹住了我的心。这个工作并不丢脸——不是不值得一一精神上也并不低下，我下定了决心。“I thank you for the proposal, Mr. Rivers, and I accept it with all my heart.”“谢谢你的建议，里弗斯先生。我欣然接受这份工作。”“But you comprehend me?” he said.  “It is a village school: your scholars will be only poor girls—cottagers’ children—at the best, farmers’ daughters.  Knitting, sewing, reading, writing, ciphering, will be all you will have to teach.  What will you do with your accomplishments?  What, with the largest portion of your mind—sentiments—tastes?”“可是你理解我的意思吗？”他说。“这是一所乡村学校。你的学生都只是穷苦女孩——茅屋里的孩子——至多是农夫的女儿。编织、缝纫和读、写、算你都得教。你自己的技艺派什么用处呢？你大部份的思想——感情——情趣又有什么用呢？”“Save them till they are wanted.  They will keep.”“留着它们等有用时再说。它们可以保存下来。”“You know what you undertake, then?”“那你知道你要干的事了。”“I do.”“我知道。”He now smiled: and not a bitter or a sad smile, but one well pleased and deeply gratified.这时他笑了，不是苦笑，也不是伤心的笑，而是十分满意并深为感激的笑容。“And when will you commence the exercise of your function?”“你什么时候开始履行职务？”“I will go to my house to-morrow, and open the school, if you like, next week.”“我明天就到自己的房子去，要是你高兴，下周就开学。”“Very well: so be it.”“很好，就这样吧。”He rose and walked through the room.  Standing still, he again looked at me.  He shook his head.他立起身来，穿过房间，一动不动地站着再次看着我。他摇了摇头。“What do you disapprove of, Mr. Rivers?” I asked.“你有什么不赞成呢，里弗斯先生？”我问。“You will not stay at Morton long: no, no!”“你不会在莫尔顿呆得很久，不，不会的：”“Why?  What is your reason for saying so?”“为什么？你这么说的理由是什么？”“I read it in your eye; it is not of that description which promises the maintenance of an even tenor in life.”“我从你的眼睛里看到了。不是那种预示着要安度一生的表情。”“I am not ambitious.”“我没有雄心。”He started at the word “ambitious.”  He repeated, “No.  What made you think of ambition?  Who is ambitious?  I know I am: but how did you find it out?”他听了“雄心”两个字吃了一惊，便重复说：“不，你怎么会想到雄心？谁雄心勃勃呢？我知道自己是这样。但你怎么发现的？”“I was speaking of myself.”“我在说我自己。”“Well, if you are not ambitious, you are—”  He paused.“嗯，要是你并不雄心勃勃，那你是——”他打住了。“What?”“是什么呢？”“I was going to say, impassioned: but perhaps you would have misunderstood the word, and been displeased.  I mean, that human affections and sympathies have a most powerful hold on you.  I am sure you cannot long be content to pass your leisure in solitude, and to devote your working hours to a monotonous labour wholly void of stimulus: any more than I can be content,” he added, with emphasis, “to live here buried in morass, pent in with mountains—my nature, that God gave me, contravened; my faculties, heaven-bestowed, paralysed—made useless.  You hear now how I contradict myself.  I, who preached contentment with a humble lot, and justified the vocation even of hewers of wood and drawers of water in God’s service—I, His ordained minister, almost rave in my restlessness.  Well, propensities and principles must be reconciled by some means.”“我正要说多情，但也许你会误解这个字，而会不高兴。我的意思是，人类的爱心和同情心在你的身上表现得很强烈。我确信你不会长期满足于在孤寂中度过闲暇，把你的工作时间用于一项完全没有刺激的单调劳动，”他又强调着补充说，“就象我不会满足于住在这里，埋没在沼泽地里，封闭在大山之中—一上帝赐予我的天性与此格格不入，上天所赋予的才能会被断送——会弄得．一无用处。这会儿你听见了我如何自相矛盾了吧。我自己讲道时说要安于自己卑贱的命运，只要为上帝效劳，即使当砍柴工和汲水人也心甘情愿一一而我，上帝所任命的牧师，几乎是焦躁不安地咆哮着。哎呀，爱好与原则总得想个办法统一起来。”He left the room.  In this brief hour I had learnt more of him than in the whole previous month: yet still he puzzled me.他走出了房间。短短的一小时之内，我对他的了解胜过于以前的一个月。不过他仍使我无法理解。Diana and Mary Rivers became more sad and silent as the day approached for leaving their brother and their home.  They both tried to appear as usual; but the sorrow they had to struggle against was one that could not be entirely conquered or concealed.  Diana intimated that this would be a different parting from any they had ever yet known.  It would probably, as far as St. John was concerned, be a parting for years: it might be a parting for life.随着同哥哥和家园告别的日子越来越近，黛安娜和玛丽．里弗斯也越来越伤心，越来越沉默了。她们都想装得同往常一样，但是她们所要驱除的忧愁是无法完全克制或是掩饰的。黛娜说，这次离别与以往所经历的完全不同。就圣•约翰来说，那可能是一去几年，也可能是一辈子。“He will sacrifice all to his long-framed resolves,” she said: “natural affection and feelings more potent still.  St. John looks quiet, Jane; but he hides a fever in his vitals.  You would think him gentle, yet in some things he is inexorable as death; and the worst of it is, my conscience will hardly permit me to dissuade him from his severe decision: certainly, I cannot for a moment blame him for it.  It is right, noble, Christian: yet it breaks my heart!”  And the tears gushed to her fine eyes.  Mary bent her head low over her work.“他会为他长期形成的决定而牺牲一切，”她说：“但天性的爱恋与感情却更加强烈。圣•约翰看上去文文静静，简，但是他的躯体里隐藏着一种热情。你可能认为他很温顺，但在某些事情上，他可以像死一般冷酷。最糟糕的是，我的良心几乎不容我说服他放弃自己苛刻的决定。当然我也绝不能为此而责备他。这是正当、高尚、符合基督教精神的，但使我心碎。”说完，眼泪一下子涌上了她漂亮的眼睛。玛丽低着头干着自己的活儿。“We are now without father: we shall soon be without home and brother,” she murmured.“如今我们已没有父亲，很快就要没有家，没有哥哥了，”她喃喃地说。At that moment a little accident supervened, which seemed decreed by fate purposely to prove the truth of the adage, that “misfortunes never come singly,” and to add to their distresses the vexing one of the slip between the cup and the lip.  St. John passed the window reading a letter.  He entered.这时候发生了一个小小的插曲，仿佛也是天意，要证实“祸不单行”的格言，伤心之中因眼看到手的东西又失掉而更添恼怒。圣•约翰走过窗前，读着一封信，他走进房间。“Our uncle John is dead,” said he.“我们的舅舅去世了，”他说。Both the sisters seemed struck: not shocked or appalled; the tidings appeared in their eyes rather momentous than afflicting.两位姐妹都似乎一怔，既不感到震惊也不表示惊讶。在她们的眼睛里这消息显得很重要，但并不令人痛苦。“Dead?” repeated Diana.“死了？”黛安娜重复说。“Yes.”“是的。”She riveted a searching gaze on her brother’s face.  “And what then?” she demanded, in a low voice.她带着搜索的目光紧盯着她哥哥的脸庞。“那又怎样呢？”她低声问。“What then, Die?” he replied, maintaining a marble immobility of feature.  “What then?  Why—nothing.  Read.”“那又怎样，死了？”他回答，面部象大理石一样毫无表情。“那又怎样？哎呀—一没有怎样。自己看吧。”He threw the letter into her lap.  She glanced over it, and handed it to Mary.  Mary perused it in silence, and returned it to her brother.  All three looked at each other, and all three smiled—a dreary, pensive smile enough.他把信扔到她膝头。她眼睛粗略地扫了一下，把它交给了玛丽。玛丽默默地细读着，后来又把信还给了她哥哥。三人彼此你看我，我看你，都笑了起来——那是一种凄凉、忧郁的笑容。“Amen!  We can yet live,” said Diana at last.“阿门！我们还能活着，”黛安娜终于说。“At any rate, it makes us no worse off than we were before,” remarked Mary.“不管怎么说，这并没有弄得我们比以前更糟，”玛丽说。“Only it forces rather strongly on the mind the picture of what might have been,” said Mr. Rivers, “and contrasts it somewhat too vividly with what is.”“只不过它强行使人想起本来可能会出现的景象，”里弗斯先生说，“而同实际的景象形成有些过份鲜明的对照。”He folded the letter, locked it in his desk, and again went out.他折好信，锁进抽屉，又走了出去。For some minutes no one spoke.  Diana then turned to me.几分钟内没有人开腔。黛安娜转向我。“Jane, you will wonder at us and our mysteries,” she said, “and think us hard-hearted beings not to be more moved at the death of so near a relation as an uncle; but we have never seen him or known him.  He was my mother’s brother.  My father and he quarrelled long ago.  It was by his advice that my father risked most of his property in the speculation that ruined him.  Mutual recrimination passed between them: they parted in anger, and were never reconciled.  My uncle engaged afterwards in more prosperous undertakings: it appears he realised a fortune of twenty thousand pounds.  He was never married, and had no near kindred but ourselves and one other person, not more closely related than we.  My father always cherished the idea that he would atone for his error by leaving his possessions to us; that letter informs us that he has bequeathed every penny to the other relation, with the exception of thirty guineas, to be divided between St. John, Diana, and Mary Rivers, for the purchase of three mourning rings.  He had a right, of course, to do as he pleased: and yet a momentary damp is cast on the spirits by the receipt of such news.  Mary and I would have esteemed ourselves rich with a thousand pounds each; and to St. John such a sum would have been valuable, for the good it would have enabled him to do.”“简，你会对我们和我们的秘密感到奇怪，”她说，“而且会认为我们心肠太狠，居然象舅舅这样一位近亲去世了却并不那么动情。但是我们从来没有见过他，也不知道他。他是我们母亲的兄弟。很久以前我父亲和他曾有过争吵。听从他的建议，我们父亲把大部分资产冒险投入一桩后来毁了他的买卖。彼此都责备对方。他们怒气冲冲地分别了，从此没有和好。我舅舅后来又投资了几家使他财运亨通的企业。他似乎积攒了二万英镑的财产。他—直单身，除了我们也没有近亲，另外有一个关系比我们要离得远些。我的父亲一直希望他会把遗产留给我们，以弥补他的过失。这封信通知我们，他已把每个子儿都给了另外一位亲戚，只留下三十畿尼，由圣•约翰、黛安娜和玛丽．里弗斯三平分，用来购置三枚丧戒。当然他有权按他高兴的去做，但是收到这样的消息暂时总使我们有些扫兴。玛丽和我都会认为各得一千英镑是很富的了，而这样一笔钱对圣•约翰所要做的好事也是很可贵的。”This explanation given, the subject was dropped, and no further reference made to it by either Mr. Rivers or his sisters.  The next day I left Marsh End for Morton.  The day after, Diana and Mary quitted it for distant B-.  In a week, Mr. Rivers and Hannah repaired to the parsonage: and so the old grange was abandoned.这番解释以后，这个话题也就扔到了一边，里弗斯先生和他的妹妹也没有再提起。第二天我离开沼泽居去莫尔顿。第三天黛安娜和玛丽告别这里去遥远的Ｂ城。一周后里弗斯先生和汉娜去了牧师住宅，于是这古老的田庄就被废弃了。CHAPTER XXXI第三十一章My home, then, when I at last find a home,—is a cottage; a little room with whitewashed walls and a sanded floor, containing four painted chairs and a table, a clock, a cupboard, with two or three plates and dishes, and a set of tea-things in delf.  Above, a chamber of the same dimensions as the kitchen, with a deal bedstead and chest of drawers; small, yet too large to be filled with my scanty wardrobe: though the kindness of my gentle and generous friends has increased that, by a modest stock of such things as are necessary.我的家呀——我终干找到了一个家——是一间小屋。小房间里墙壁已粉刷过，地面是用沙铺成的。房间内有四把漆过的椅子，一张桌子，一个钟，一个碗橱。橱里有两三个盘子和碟子，还有一套荷兰白釉蓝彩陶器茶具。楼上有一个面积跟厨房一般大小的房间，里面有一个松木床架和一个衣柜，虽然很小，盛放我为数不多的衣物绰绰有余，尽管我的和蔼可亲、慷慨大方的朋友，已经为我增添了一些必要的衣服。It is evening.  I have dismissed, with the fee of an orange, the little orphan who serves me as a handmaid.  I am sitting alone on the hearth.  This morning, the village school opened.  I had twenty scholars.  But three of the number can read: none write or cipher.  Several knit, and a few sew a little.  They speak with the broadest accent of the district.  At present, they and I have a difficulty in understanding each other’s language.  Some of them are unmannered, rough, intractable, as well as ignorant; but others are docile, have a wish to learn, and evince a disposition that pleases me.  I must not forget that these coarsely-clad little peasants are of flesh and blood as good as the scions of gentlest genealogy; and that the germs of native excellence, refinement, intelligence, kind feeling, are as likely to exist in their hearts as in those of the best-born.  My duty will be to develop these germs: surely I shall find some happiness in discharging that office.  Much enjoyment I do not expect in the life opening before me: yet it will, doubtless, if I regulate my mind, and exert my powers as I ought, yield me enough to live on from day to day.这会儿正是傍晚时分，我给了当我女仆的小孤女一个桔子，打发她走了。我独自坐在火炉旁。今天早上，村校开学了。我有二十个学生，但只有三个能读，没有人会写会算，有几个能编织，少数几个会一点缝纫，她们说起话来地方口音很重。眼下我和她们彼此难以听懂对方的语言。其中有几个没有礼貌，十分粗野。难以驾驭，同时又很无知。但其余的却容易管教，愿意学习，显露出一种令人愉快的气质。我决不能忘记，这些衣衫粗陋的小农民，像最高贵血统的后裔一样有血有肉的；跟出身最好的人一样，天生的美德、雅致，智慧、善良的的情感，都可能在她们的心田里发芽，我的职责是帮助这些萌芽成长，当然在尽责时我能获得某种愉快。但我并不期望从展现在我面前的生活中尝到多大乐趣。不过无疑要是我调节自己的心态，尽力去做，它也会给我以足够的酬报，让我一天天生活下去。Was I very gleeful, settled, content, during the hours I passed in yonder bare, humble schoolroom this morning and afternoon?  Not to deceive myself, I must reply—No: I felt desolate to a degree.  I felt—yes, idiot that I am—I felt degraded.  I doubted I had taken a step which sank instead of raising me in the scale of social existence.  I was weakly dismayed at the ignorance, the poverty, the coarseness of all I heard and saw round me.  But let me not hate and despise myself too much for these feelings; I know them to be wrong—that is a great step gained; I shall strive to overcome them.  To-morrow, I trust, I shall get the better of them partially; and in a few weeks, perhaps, they will be quite subdued.  In a few months, it is possible, the happiness of seeing progress, and a change for the better in my scholars may substitute gratification for disgust.今天上午和下午我在那边四壁空空、简陋不堪的教室里度过的几小时，难道自己就快乐、安心、知足吗，为了不自欺欺人，我得回答——没有。我觉得有些孤寂，我感到——是呀．自己真愚蠢——我感到有失身份。我怀疑我所跨出的一步不是提高而是降低了自己的社会地位。我对周围见到和听到的无知、贫穷和粗俗略微有点失望。但别让我因为这些情感而痛恨和蔑视自己。我知道这些情感是不对的——这是一大进步。我要努力驱除这些情感。我相信明天我将部分地战胜它们；几周之后或许完全征服它们；几个月后，我会高兴地看到进步，看到学生们大有进展，于是满意就会取代厌恶了。Meantime, let me ask myself one question—Which is better?—To have surrendered to temptation; listened to passion; made no painful effort—no struggle;—but to have sunk down in the silken snare; fallen asleep on the flowers covering it; wakened in a southern clime, amongst the luxuries of a pleasure villa: to have been now living in France, Mr. Rochester’s mistress; delirious with his love half my time—for he would—oh, yes, he would have loved me well for a while.  He did love me—no one will ever love me so again.  I shall never more know the sweet homage given to beauty, youth, and grace—for never to any one else shall I seem to possess these charms.  He was fond and proud of me—it is what no man besides will ever be.—But where am I wandering, and what am I saying, and above all, feeling?  Whether is it better, I ask, to be a slave in a fool’s paradise at Marseilles—fevered with delusive bliss one hour—suffocating with the bitterest tears of remorse and shame the next—or to be a village-schoolmistress, free and honest, in a breezy mountain nook in the healthy heart of England?同时，也让我问自己一个问题——何者为好？——经不住诱惑听凭欲念摆布，不作痛苦的努力——没有搏斗——落入温柔的陷阱，在覆盖着陷阱的花丛中沉沉睡去。在南方的气候中一觉醒来，置身于享乐别墅的奢华之中，原来已住在法国，做了罗切斯特先生的情妇，一半的时间因为他的爱而发狂——因为他会——呵，不错，他暂时会很爱我。他确实爱我——再也没有谁会这么爱我了。我永远也看不到有谁会对美丽、青春、优雅如此虔敬了——因为我不会对任何其他人产生这样的魅力。他非常喜欢我，为我感到自豪——而其他人是谁也做不到的——可是我会在哪儿漫游，我会说什么，尤其是我会有什么感觉呢？我问，在马赛愚人的天堂做一个奴隶——一会儿开心得浑身发烧，头脑发昏——一会儿因为羞愧和悔恨而痛苦流涕，是这样好呢，还是——在健康的英国中部一个山风吹拂的角落，做一个无忧无虑老老实实的乡村女教师好呢？Yes; I feel now that I was right when I adhered to principle and law, and scorned and crushed the insane promptings of a frenzied moment.  God directed me to a correct choice: I thank His providence for the guidance!是的，我现在感到，自己坚持原则和法规，蔑视和控制狂乱时刻缺乏理智的冲动是对的。上帝指引我作了正确的选择，我感谢上苍的指导！Having brought my eventide musings to this point, I rose, went to my door, and looked at the sunset of the harvest-day, and at the quiet fields before my cottage, which, with the school, was distant half a mile from the village.  The birds were singing their last strains—薄暮时分，我想到这里便站了起来，走向门边，看看收获日子的夕阳，看看小屋前面静悄悄的田野，田野与学校离村庄有半英里。鸟儿们正唱着它们最后的一曲。“The air was mild, the dew was balm.”“微风和煦，露水芬芳。”While I looked, I thought myself happy, and was surprised to find myself ere long weeping—and why?  For the doom which had reft me from adhesion to my master: for him I was no more to see; for the desperate grief and fatal fury—consequences of my departure—which might now, perhaps, be dragging him from the path of right, too far to leave hope of ultimate restoration thither.  At this thought, I turned my face aside from the lovely sky of eve and lonely vale of Morton—I say lonely, for in that bend of it visible to me there was no building apparent save the church and the parsonage, half-hid in trees, and, quite at the extremity, the roof of Vale Hall, where the rich Mr. Oliver and his daughter lived.  I hid my eyes, and leant my head against the stone frame of my door; but soon a slight noise near the wicket which shut in my tiny garden from the meadow beyond it made me look up.  A dog—old Carlo, Mr. Rivers’ pointer, as I saw in a moment—was pushing the gate with his nose, and St. John himself leant upon it with folded arms; his brow knit, his gaze, grave almost to displeasure, fixed on me.  I asked him to come in.这么瞧着感到很愉快，而且惊异地发觉自己不久哭起来了——为什么？因为厄运硬是把两情依依的我与主人拆开；因为我再也见不到他了；因为绝望的忧伤和极度的愤怒一一我离开的后果——这些也许正拉着他远远离开正道，失去了最后改邪归正的希望。一想到这里我从黄昏可爱的天空和莫尔顿孤独的溪谷转过脸来——我说孤独，那是因为在山弯里，除了掩映在树从中的教堂和牧师住宅，以及另一头顶端住着有钱的奥利弗先生和他的女儿的溪谷庄园，再也看不见其他建筑了。我蒙住眼睛，把头靠在房子的石门框上。但不久那扇把我的小花园与外边草地分开的小门附近，传来了轻轻的响动，我便抬起头来。一条狗——不一会儿我看到是里弗斯先生的猎狗卡罗一—正用鼻子推着门。圣•约翰自己抱臂靠在门上，他双眉紧锁，严肃得近乎不快的目光盯着我，我把他请进了屋。“No, I cannot stay; I have only brought you a little parcel my sisters left for you.  I think it contains a colour-box, pencils, and paper.”“不，我不能久呆，我不过给你捎来了一个小包裹，是我妹妹们留给你的。我想里面有一个颜色盒，一些铅笔和纸张。”I approached to take it: a welcome gift it was.  He examined my face, I thought, with austerity, as I came near: the traces of tears were doubtless very visible upon it.走过去收了下来，这是一件值得欢迎的礼品。我走近他时，我想他用严厉的目光审视着我。毫无疑问，我脸上明显有泪痕。“Have you found your first day’s work harder than you expected?” he asked.“你发觉第一天的工作比你预料的要难吗？”他问。“Oh, no!  On the contrary, I think in time I shall get on with my scholars very well.”“呵，没有！相反，我想到时候我会跟学生们处得很好。”“But perhaps your accommodations—your cottage—your furniture—have disappointed your expectations?  They are, in truth, scanty enough; but—” I interrupted—“可是也许你的居住条件——你的房子——你的家具一—使你大失所望？说真的是够寒碜的，不过——”我打断了他：“My cottage is clean and weather-proof; my furniture sufficient and commodious.  All I see has made me thankful, not despondent.  I am not absolutely such a fool and sensualist as to regret the absence of a carpet, a sofa, and silver plate; besides, five weeks ago I had nothing—I was an outcast, a beggar, a vagrant; now I have acquaintance, a home, a business.  I wonder at the goodness of God; the generosity of my friends; the bounty of my lot.  I do not repine.”“我的小屋很干净，也经得住风雨。我的家具很充足，使用起来也方便。我所看到的只能使我感到幸运，而不是沮丧。我绝不是这样一个傻瓜和享乐主义者，居然对缺少地毯、沙发、银盘而懊悔不已。更何况五周前我一无所有——我当时是一个弃儿、一个乞丐、一个流浪者。现在我有了熟人，有了家，有了工作。我惊异于上帝的仁慈，朋友的慷慨，命运的恩惠。我并不感到烦恼。”“But you feel solitude an oppression?  The little house there behind you is dark and empty.”“可是你不觉得孤独是一种压抑吗？你身后的小房子黑咕隆咚，空空荡荡，”“I have hardly had time yet to enjoy a sense of tranquillity, much less to grow impatient under one of loneliness.”“我几乎还没有时间来欣赏一种宁静感，更没有时间为孤独感而显得不耐烦了。”“Very well; I hope you feel the content you express: at any rate, your good sense will tell you that it is too soon yet to yield to the vacillating fears of Lot’s wife.  What you had left before I saw you, of course I do not know; but I counsel you to resist firmly every temptation which would incline you to look back: pursue your present career steadily, for some months at least.”“很好。我希望你体会到了你自己所说的满足，不管怎么说，你健全的理智会告诉你，像罗得的妻子那样犹犹豫豫，畏首畏尾，还为时过早。我见到你之前你遇到了什么，我无从知道，但我劝你要坚决抵制回头看的诱惑，坚守你现在的事业，至少干它几个月。”“It is what I mean to do,” I answered.  St. John continued—“那正是我想做的，”我回答。圣•约翰继续说：“It is hard work to control the workings of inclination and turn the bent of nature; but that it may be done, I know from experience.  God has given us, in a measure, the power to make our own fate; and when our energies seem to demand a sustenance they cannot get—when our will strains after a path we may not follow—we need neither starve from inanition, nor stand still in despair: we have but to seek another nourishment for the mind, as strong as the forbidden food it longed to taste—and perhaps purer; and to hew out for the adventurous foot a road as direct and broad as the one Fortune has blocked up against us, if rougher than it.“要控制意愿，改变天性并不容易，但从经验来看是可以做到的。上帝给了我们一定力量来创造自己的命运。我们的精力需要补充而又难以如愿的时候——我们的意志一意孤行，要走不该走的路的时候一—我们不必因食物不足而挨饿，或者因为绝望而止步。我们只要为心灵寻找另一种养料，它像渴望一尝的禁果那样滋养，也许还更为清醇。要为敢于冒险的双脚开辟出一条路来，虽然更加坎坷，却同命运将我们堵塞的路一样直，一样宽。”“A year ago I was myself intensely miserable, because I thought I had made a mistake in entering the ministry: its uniform duties wearied me to death.  I burnt for the more active life of the world—for the more exciting toils of a literary career—for the destiny of an artist, author, orator; anything rather than that of a priest: yes, the heart of a politician, of a soldier, of a votary of glory, a lover of renown, a luster after power, beat under my curate’s surplice.  I considered; my life was so wretched, it must be changed, or I must die.  After a season of darkness and struggling, light broke and relief fell: my cramped existence all at once spread out to a plain without bounds—my powers heard a call from heaven to rise, gather their full strength, spread their wings, and mount beyond ken.  God had an errand for me; to bear which afar, to deliver it well, skill and strength, courage and eloquence, the best qualifications of soldier, statesman, and orator, were all needed: for these all centre in the good missionary.“一年之前，我也极其痛苦，觉得当牧师是一大错误。它千篇一律的职责乏味得要死。我热烈向往世间更活跃的生活—一向往文学经历更激动人心的劳作一—向往艺术家、作家、演说家的命运，只要不当牧师，随便当什么都可以。是的，一个政治家、一个士兵、一个光荣事业的献身者、一个沽名钓誉者、一个权力欲很强的人的一颗心，在牧师的法衣下跳动。我认为我的生活是悲惨的，必须加以改变，否则我得死去。经过一段黑暗和挣扎的时期，光明到来，宽慰降临。我那原先狭窄的生活，突然间扩展到一望无垠的平原—一我的能力听到了上天的召唤，起来，全力以赴，张开翅膀，任意飞翔。上帝赐予我一项使命，要做到底做得好，技巧和力量、勇气和雄辩等士兵、政治家、演说家的最好质都是必不可少的，因为一个出色的传教士都集这些于一身。“A missionary I resolved to be.  From that moment my state of mind changed; the fetters dissolved and dropped from every faculty, leaving nothing of bondage but its galling soreness—which time only can heal.  My father, indeed, imposed the determination, but since his death, I have not a legitimate obstacle to contend with; some affairs settled, a successor for Morton provided, an entanglement or two of the feelings broken through or cut asunder—a last conflict with human weakness, in which I know I shall overcome, because I have vowed that I will overcome—and I leave Europe for the East.”“我决心当个传教士。从那一刻起我的心态起了变化，镣铐熔化了，纷纷脱离我的官能，留下的不是羁绊而是擦伤的疼痛—一那只有时间才能治愈。其实我父亲反对我的决定，但自他去世以后，我已没有合法的障碍需要排除。一些事务已经妥善处理，莫尔顿的后继者也已经找到。一两桩感情纠葛已经冲破或者割断——这是与人类弱点的最后斗争，我知道我能克服，因为我发誓我一定要克服它——我离开欧洲去东方。”He said this, in his peculiar, subdued, yet emphatic voice; looking, when he had ceased speaking, not at me, but at the setting sun, at which I looked too.  Both he and I had our backs towards the path leading up the field to the wicket.  We had heard no step on that grass-grown track; the water running in the vale was the one lulling sound of the hour and scene; we might well then start when a gay voice, sweet as a silver bell, exclaimed—他说这话的时候用的是奇怪、克制却又强调的口吻。说完了抬起头来，不是看我，而是看着落日，我也看了起来。他和我都背朝着从田野通向小门的小径。在杂草丛生的小径上，我们没有听到脚步声，此时此刻此情此景中，唯一让人陶醉的声音是潺潺的溪流声。因此当一个银铃似的欢快甜蜜的嗓音叫起来时，我们很吃了一惊：“Good evening, Mr. Rivers.  And good evening, old Carlo.  Your dog is quicker to recognise his friends than you are, sir; he pricked his ears and wagged his tail when I was at the bottom of the field, and you have your back towards me now.”“晚上好，里弗斯先生，晚上好，老卡罗。你的狗比你先认出了你的朋友来呢，我还在底下田野上，他已经竖起耳朵，摇起尾巴来了，而你到现在还把背向着我。”It was true.  Though Mr. Rivers had started at the first of those musical accents, as if a thunderbolt had split a cloud over his head, he stood yet, at the close of the sentence, in the same attitude in which the speaker had surprised him—his arm resting on the gate, his face directed towards the west.  He turned at last, with measured deliberation.  A vision, as it seemed to me, had risen at his side.  There appeared, within three feet of him, a form clad in pure white—a youthful, graceful form: full, yet fine in contour; and when, after bending to caress Carlo, it lifted up its head, and threw back a long veil, there bloomed under his glance a face of perfect beauty.  Perfect beauty is a strong expression; but I do not retrace or qualify it: as sweet features as ever the temperate clime of Albion moulded; as pure hues of rose and lily as ever her humid gales and vapoury skies generated and screened, justified, in this instance, the term.  No charm was wanting, no defect was perceptible; the young girl had regular and delicate lineaments; eyes shaped and coloured as we see them in lovely pictures, large, and dark, and full; the long and shadowy eyelash which encircles a fine eye with so soft a fascination; the pencilled brow which gives such clearness; the white smooth forehead, which adds such repose to the livelier beauties of tint and ray; the cheek oval, fresh, and smooth; the lips, fresh too, ruddy, healthy, sweetly formed; the even and gleaming teeth without flaw; the small dimpled chin; the ornament of rich, plenteous tresses—all advantages, in short, which, combined, realise the ideal of beauty, were fully hers.  I wondered, as I looked at this fair creature: I admired her with my whole heart.  Nature had surely formed her in a partial mood; and, forgetting her usual stinted step-mother dole of gifts, had endowed this, her darling, with a grand-dame’s bounty.确实如此。尽管里弗斯先生刚听到音乐般的声调时吃了一惊，仿佛一个霹雳在他头上撕裂了云层似的。但就是对方把话说完了，他还是保持着说话人惊吓了他时的姿势，胳膊靠在门上，脸朝西。最后他从容地转过头来，我似乎觉得他旁边出现了一个幻影。离他三尺的地方，有一个穿着纯白衣服的形体一一年青而优美的形体，丰满而线条很美。这人弯下腰下去抚摸卡罗时，抬起了头，把长长的面纱扔到后头，于是一张花也似的美妙绝伦的面孔，映入了他的眼帘。美妙绝伦是说重了一点，但我不愿收回这个词，或者另加修饰。英格兰温和的气候所能塑造的最可爱的面容，英格兰湿润的风和雾蒙蒙的天空所能催生，所能庇护的最纯正的玫瑰色和百合色这种描绘，在眼前这个例子中证明是恰到好处的。不缺一丝妩媚，不见任何缺陷。这位年轻姑娘面部匀称娇嫩，眼睛的形状和颜色就跟我们在可爱的图画上看到的无异，又大又黑又圆，眼睫毛又长又浓，以一种柔和的魅力围着一对美丽的眼睛。画过的眉毛异常清晰。白皙光滑的额头给色泽与光彩所形成的活泼美增添了一种宁静。脸颊呈椭圆形，鲜嫩而滑润。嘴唇也一样鲜嫩，红通通十分健康，外形非常可爱。整齐而闪光的牙齿，没有缺点，下巴有一个小小的酒窝。头发浓密成了一个很好的装饰。总之，合在一起构成理想美的一切优点都是属于她的，我瞧着这个漂亮的家伙，不胜惊讶，对她一心为之赞叹。大自然显然出于偏爱创造了她，忘记给予她通常吝啬的后母会给的小礼，而授予了她外祖母会给的慷慨恩赐。What did St. John Rivers think of this earthly angel?  I naturally asked myself that question as I saw him turn to her and look at her; and, as naturally, I sought the answer to the inquiry in his countenance.  He had already withdrawn his eye from the Peri, and was looking at a humble tuft of daisies which grew by the wicket.圣•约翰•里弗斯对这位人间天使有什么想法呢？我看见他向她转过脸去并瞧着她时，自然而然地提出了这个问题，我也一样自然地从他的面部表情上寻找这个问题的答案。他已把目光从这位仙女身上移开，正瞧着长在门边的一簇不起眼的雏菊。“A lovely evening, but late for you to be out alone,” he said, as he crushed the snowy heads of the closed flowers with his foot.“是个可爱的傍晚，不过你一个人外出就有些太晚了，”他一面说，一面用脚把没有开的雪白的花头踩烂了。“Oh, I only came home from S-” (she mentioned the name of a large town some twenty miles distant) “this afternoon.  Papa told me you had opened your school, and that the new mistress was come; and so I put on my bonnet after tea, and ran up the valley to see her: this is she?” pointing to me.“呵，我下午刚从Ｓ市回来（她提了一下相距大约二十英里的一个城市）。爸爸告诉我你己经开办了一所学校，新的女教师已经来了，所以我用完茶后戴上草帽跑到山谷来看她了。就是她吗？”她指着我。“It is,” said St. John.“是的，”圣•约翰说。“Do you think you shall like Morton?” she asked of me, with a direct and naive simplicity of tone and manner, pleasing, if child-like.“你觉得会喜欢莫尔顿吗？”她问我，语调和举止里带着一种直率而幼稚的单纯，虽然有些孩子气，但讨人喜欢。“I hope I shall.  I have many inducements to do so.”“我希望我会这样。我很想这么做。”“Did you find your scholars as attentive as you expected?”“你发现学生像你预料的那么专心么？”“Quite.”“十分专心。”“Do you like your house?”“你喜欢你的房子吗？”“Very much.”“很喜欢。”“Have I furnished it nicely?”“我布置得好吗？”“Very nicely, indeed.”“真的很好。”“And made a good choice of an attendant for you in Alice Wood?”“而且选了爱丽丝．伍德来服侍你，不错吧？”“You have indeed.  She is teachable and handy.”  (This then, I thought, is Miss Oliver, the heiress; favoured, it seems, in the gifts of fortune, as well as in those of nature!  What happy combination of the planets presided over her birth, I wonder?)“确实这样。她可以管教，也很派用处。（那么我想这位就是继承人奥利弗小姐了。她似乎既在家产上又在那些天生丽质上得到了偏爱！我不知道她的出生碰上了什么行星的幸运组合呢？）”“I shall come up and help you to teach sometimes,” she added.  “It will be a change for me to visit you now and then; and I like a change.  Mr. Rivers, I have been so gay during my stay at S-.  Last night, or rather this morning, I was dancing till two o’clock.  The ---th regiment are stationed there since the riots; and the officers are the most agreeable men in the world: they put all our young knife-grinders and scissor merchants to shame.”“有时我会上来帮你教书，”她补充说。“这么时时来看看你，对我也可以换换口味，而我喜欢换口味。里弗斯先生，我呆在Ｓ市的时候非常愉快。昨天晚上，或者说今天早晨，我跳舞一直跳到两点。那，那个，——自从骚乱以后，那个团一直驻扎在那里，而军官们是世上最讨人喜欢的人，他们使我们所有年青的磨刀制剪商相形见绌。It seemed to me that Mr. St. John’s under lip protruded, and his upper lip curled a moment.  His mouth certainly looked a good deal compressed, and the lower part of his face unusually stern and square, as the laughing girl gave him this information.  He lifted his gaze, too, from the daisies, and turned it on her.  An unsmiling, a searching, a meaning gaze it was.  She answered it with a second laugh, and laughter well became her youth, her roses, her dimples, her bright eyes.我好像觉得圣•约翰先生的下唇突了出来，上唇卷起了一会儿。这位哈哈笑着的姑娘告诉他这些情况时，他的嘴看上去紧抿着，下半个脸异乎寻常地严肃和古板。他还从雏菊那儿抬起眼来凝视着她。这是一种没有笑容、搜索探寻、意味深长的目光。她再次一笑，算是对他的回答。笑声很适合她的青春年华，她那玫瑰色的面容，她的酒窝，她那晶莹的眸子。As he stood, mute and grave, she again fell to caressing Carlo.  “Poor Carlo loves me,” said she.  “He is not stern and distant to his friends; and if he could speak, he would not be silent.”圣•约翰默不作声十分严肃地站着时，她又开始抚摸起卡罗来。“可怜的，卡罗喜欢我，”她说，“它对朋友不严肃，不疏远。而且要是它能说话，它是不会不吭声的。”As she patted the dog’s head, bending with native grace before his young and austere master, I saw a glow rise to that master’s face.  I saw his solemn eye melt with sudden fire, and flicker with resistless emotion.  Flushed and kindled thus, he looked nearly as beautiful for a man as she for a woman.  His chest heaved once, as if his large heart, weary of despotic constriction, had expanded, despite the will, and made a vigorous bound for the attainment of liberty.  But he curbed it, I think, as a resolute rider would curb a rearing steed.  He responded neither by word nor movement to the gentle advances made him.她以天生的优美姿态，在年青而严峻的狗主人面前弯下腰，拍拍狗头时，我看见主人的脸上升起了红晕，看见他严肃的目光，已被突如其来的火花所融化，闪烁着难以克制的激情，因此他的脸烧得通红。作为一个男子，他看上去几乎象她作为一个女人那么漂亮。他的胸部一度起伏着，仿佛那颗巨大的心对专横的约束感到厌倦，已经违背意志扩展起来，强劲有力地跳动了一下，希望获得自由。但他把它控制住了，我想就像一位坚定的骑手勒住了腾起的马一样。对她那种饱含温情的友好表示，他既没用语言也没通过动作来回答。“Papa says you never come to see us now,” continued Miss Oliver, looking up.  “You are quite a stranger at Vale Hall.  He is alone this evening, and not very well: will you return with me and visit him?”“爸爸说你现在从不来看我们了，”奥利弗小姐抬起头来继续说。“你简直成了溪谷庄园的陌生人了。今天晚上他只有一个人，而且不大舒服。你愿意同我一起回去看看他吗？”“It is not a seasonable hour to intrude on Mr. Oliver,” answered St. John.“现在这个时候去打扰奥利弗先生是不合时宜的，”圣•约翰回答。“Not a seasonable hour!  But I declare it is.  It is just the hour when papa most wants company: when the works are closed and he has no business to occupy him.  Now, Mr. Rivers, do come.  Why are you so very shy, and so very sombre?”  She filled up the hiatus his silence left by a reply of her own.“不会不合时宜的！但我宣布现在恰是时候，这是爸爸最需要有人陪伴的时刻。工厂一关，他便没事可干了。好吧，里弗斯先生，你可—定得来。你干嘛这么怕羞，这么忧郁？”她自己作了回答，填补了他的沉默所留下的空隙。“I forgot!” she exclaimed, shaking her beautiful curled head, as if shocked at herself.  “I am so giddy and thoughtless!  Do excuse me.  It had slipped my memory that you have good reasons to be indisposed for joining in my chatter.  Diana and Mary have left you, and Moor House is shut up, and you are so lonely.  I am sure I pity you.  Do come and see papa.”“我倒忘了，”她大叫起来，摇着美丽的、头发卷曲的脑袋，仿佛对自己感到震惊。“我实在是昏头昏脑，太粗心大意了！—定得原谅我。我倒是忘了你有充分理由不愿跟我闲聊。黛安娜和玛丽已经离开了你，沼泽居已经关闭，你那么孤独。我确实很同情你，一定要来看看爸爸呀。”“Not to-night, Miss Rosamond, not to-night.”“今晚不去了，罗莎蒙德小姐，今晚不去了。”Mr. St. John spoke almost like an automaton: himself only knew the effort it cost him thus to refuse.圣•约翰先生几乎像一台机器那样说着话。只有他自己知道要拒绝对方所要付出的力气。“Well, if you are so obstinate, I will leave you; for I dare not stay any longer: the dew begins to fall.  Good evening!”“好吧，要是你那么固执，我就离开你了，可不敢再这么呆下去，露水已开始落下来了，晚安！”She held out her hand.  He just touched it.  “Good evening!” he repeated, in a voice low and hollow as an echo.  She turned, but in a moment returned.她伸出手来。他只碰了一碰。“晚安！”他重复道，音调低沉，而且像回音那么沉闷。她转过身去，但过了一会儿又回过身来。“Are you well?” she asked.  Well might she put the question: his face was blanched as her gown.“你身体好吗？”她问。她难怪会提出这个问题来，因为他的脸色像她的衣服那么苍白。“Quite well,” he enunciated; and, with a bow, he left the gate.  She went one way; he another.  She turned twice to gaze after him as she tripped fairy-like down the field; he, as he strode firmly across, never turned at all.“很好，”他宣称，随后点了点头离开了大门。她走一条路，他走的是另一条路。她像仙女一样轻快地走下田野时，两次回头盯着他；而他坚定地大步走过，从没回头。This spectacle of another’s suffering and sacrifice rapt my thoughts from exclusive meditation on my own.  Diana Rivers had designated her brother “inexorable as death.”  She had not exaggerated.别人受苦和作出牺牲的情景，使我不再只耽于对自己的受苦和牺牲的沉思了。黛安娜．里弗斯曾说她的哥哥“象死一般的冷酷，”她并没有夸张。CHAPTER XXXII第三十二章I continued the labours of the village-school as actively and faithfully as I could.  It was truly hard work at first.  Some time elapsed before, with all my efforts, I could comprehend my scholars and their nature.  Wholly untaught, with faculties quite torpid, they seemed to me hopelessly dull; and, at first sight, all dull alike: but I soon found I was mistaken.  There was a difference amongst them as amongst the educated; and when I got to know them, and they me, this difference rapidly developed itself.  Their amazement at me, my language, my rules, and ways, once subsided, I found some of these heavy-looking, gaping rustics wake up into sharp-witted girls enough.  Many showed themselves obliging, and amiable too; and I discovered amongst them not a few examples of natural politeness, and innate self-respect, as well as of excellent capacity, that won both my goodwill and my admiration.  These soon took a pleasure in doing their work well, in keeping their persons neat, in learning their tasks regularly, in acquiring quiet and orderly manners.  The rapidity of their progress, in some instances, was even surprising; and an honest and happy pride I took in it: besides, I began personally to like some of the best girls; and they liked me.  I had amongst my scholars several farmers’ daughters: young women grown, almost.  These could already read, write, and sew; and to them I taught the elements of grammar, geography, history, and the finer kinds of needlework.  I found estimable characters amongst them—characters desirous of information and disposed for improvement—with whom I passed many a pleasant evening hour in their own homes.  Their parents then (the farmer and his wife) loaded me with attentions.  There was an enjoyment in accepting their simple kindness, and in repaying it by a consideration—a scrupulous regard to their feelings—to which they were not, perhaps, at all times accustomed, and which both charmed and benefited them; because, while it elevated them in their own eyes, it made them emulous to merit the deferential treatment they received.我继续为积极办好乡村学校尽心尽力。起初确实困难重重。尽管我使出浑身解数，还是过了一段时间才了解我的学生和她们的天性。她们完全没有受过教育，官能都很迟钝，使我觉得这些人笨得无可救药。粗粗一看，个个都是呆头呆脑的，但不久我便发现自己错了。就像受过教育的人之间是有区别的一样，她们之间也有区别。我了解她们，她们也了解我之后，这种区别很快便不知不觉地扩大了。一旦她们对我的语言、习惯和生活方式不再感到惊讶，我便发现一些神态呆滞、目光迟钝的乡巴佬，蜕变成了头脑机灵的姑娘。很多人亲切可爱很有礼貌。我发现她们中间不少人天性就懂礼貌，自尊自爱，很有能力，赢得了我的好感和敬佩。这些人不久便很乐意把工作做好，保持自身整洁，按时做功课，养成斯斯文文有条有理的习惯。在某些方面，她们进步之快甚至令人吃惊，我真诚愉快地为此感到骄傲。另外，我本人也开始喜欢上几位最好的姑娘，她们也喜欢我。学生中有几个农夫的女儿，差不多已经长成了少女。她们已经会读，会写，会缝，于是我就教她们语法、地理和历史的基本知识，以及更精细的针线活。我还在她们中间发现了几位可贵的人物一一这些人渴求知识，希望上进——我在她们家里一起度过了不少愉快的夜晚。而她们的父母（农夫和妻子）对我很殷勤。我乐于接受他们纯朴的善意，并以尊重他们的情感来作为回报一—对此他们不一定会随时都感到习惯，但这既让她们着迷，也对他们有益，因为他们眼看自己提高了地位，并渴望无愧于所受到的厚待。I felt I became a favourite in the neighbourhood.  Whenever I went out, I heard on all sides cordial salutations, and was welcomed with friendly smiles.  To live amidst general regard, though it be but the regard of working people, is like “sitting in sunshine, calm and sweet;” serene inward feelings bud and bloom under the ray.  At this period of my life, my heart far oftener swelled with thankfulness than sank with dejection: and yet, reader, to tell you all, in the midst of this calm, this useful existence—after a day passed in honourable exertion amongst my scholars, an evening spent in drawing or reading contentedly alone—I used to rush into strange dreams at night: dreams many-coloured, agitated, full of the ideal, the stirring, the stormy—dreams where, amidst unusual scenes, charged with adventure, with agitating risk and romantic chance, I still again and again met Mr. Rochester, always at some exciting crisis; and then the sense of being in his arms, hearing his voice, meeting his eye, touching his hand and cheek, loving him, being loved by him—the hope of passing a lifetime at his side, would be renewed, with all its first force and fire.  Then I awoke.  Then I recalled where I was, and how situated.  Then I rose up on my curtainless bed, trembling and quivering; and then the still, dark night witnessed the convulsion of despair, and heard the burst of passion.  By nine o’clock the next morning I was punctually opening the school; tranquil, settled, prepared for the steady duties of the day.我觉得自己成了附近地区的宠儿。无论什么时候出门，我都会处处听到亲切的招呼，受到满脸笑容的欢迎。生活在众人的关心之，即便是劳动者的关心，也如同“坐在阳光下，既宁静又舒心”。内心的恬静感觉开始萌芽，并在阳光下开放出花朵。在这段时间的生活中，我的心常常涌起感激之情，而没有颓唐沮丧。可是，读者呀，让我全都告诉你吧，在平静而充实的生活中——白天为学生作出了高尚的努力，晚上心满意足地独自作画和读书——之后我常常匆匆忙忙地进入了夜间奇异的梦境，多姿多彩的梦，有骚动不安的、充满理想的、激动人心的，也有急风骤雨式的——这些梦有着千奇百怪的场景，充满冒险的经历，揪心的险情和浪漫的机遇。梦中我依旧一次次遇见罗切斯特先生，往往是在激动人心的关键时刻。随后我感到投入了他的怀抱，听见了他的声音，遇见了他的目光，碰到了他的手和脸颊，爱他而又被他所爱。于是重又燃起在他身边度过一生的希望，像当初那么强烈，那么火热，随后我醒了过来。于是我想起了自己身在何处，处境如何。接着我颤颤巍巍地从没有帐幔的床上爬起来。沉沉黑夜目睹了我绝望的痉挛，听见了我怒火的爆发。到了第二天早上九点，我按时开学，平心静气地为一天的例行公事作好准备。Rosamond Oliver kept her word in coming to visit me.  Her call at the school was generally made in the course of her morning ride.  She would canter up to the door on her pony, followed by a mounted livery servant.  Anything more exquisite than her appearance, in her purple habit, with her Amazon’s cap of black velvet placed gracefully above the long curls that kissed her cheek and floated to her shoulders, can scarcely be imagined: and it was thus she would enter the rustic building, and glide through the dazzled ranks of the village children.  She generally came at the hour when Mr. Rivers was engaged in giving his daily catechising lesson.  Keenly, I fear, did the eye of the visitress pierce the young pastor’s heart.  A sort of instinct seemed to warn him of her entrance, even when he did not see it; and when he was looking quite away from the door, if she appeared at it, his cheek would glow, and his marble-seeming features, though they refused to relax, changed indescribably, and in their very quiescence became expressive of a repressed fervour, stronger than working muscle or darting glance could indicate.罗莎蒙德．奥利弗守信来看我。她一般是在早上遛马时到学校里来的，骑着她的小马慢跑到门口，后面跟了一位骑马的随从。她穿了一套紫色的骑装，戴一顶亚马逊式黑丝绒帽，很有风度地戴在从脸颊一直披到肩的卷发上，很难想象世上还有比她的外貌更标致的东西了。于是她会走进土里土气的房子，穿过被弄得眼花缭乱的乡村孩子的队伍。她总是在里弗斯先主上教义回答课时到。我猜想这位女来访者的目光，锐利地穿透了年青牧师的心。一种直觉向他提醒她已经进来了，即使他没有看到，或者视线正好从门口转开时也是如此。而要是她出现在门口，他的脸会灼灼生光，他那大理石一般的五官尽管拒不松弛，但难以形容地变了形。恬静中流露出一种受压抑的热情，要比肌肉的活动和目光的顾盼所显现的强烈得多。Of course, she knew her power: indeed, he did not, because he could not, conceal it from her.  In spite of his Christian stoicism, when she went up and addressed him, and smiled gaily, encouragingly, even fondly in his face, his hand would tremble and his eye burn.  He seemed to say, with his sad and resolute look, if he did not say it with his lips, “I love you, and I know you prefer me.  It is not despair of success that keeps me dumb.  If I offered my heart, I believe you would accept it.  But that heart is already laid on a sacred altar: the fire is arranged round it.  It will soon be no more than a sacrifice consumed.”当然她知道自己的魅力。其实他倒没有在她面前掩饰自己所感受到的魅力，因为他无法掩饰。虽然他信奉基督教禁欲主义，但她走近他，同他说话，对着他兴高彩烈、满含鼓励乃至多情地笑起来时，他的手会颤抖起来，他的眼睛会燃烧起来。他似乎不是用嘴巴，而是用哀伤而坚定的目光在说：“我爱你，我知道你也喜欢我。我不是因为毫无成功的希望而保持缄默。要是我献出这颗心来，我相信你会接受它，但是这颗心已经摆到了神圣的祭坛上了，周围燃起了火，很快它会成为耗尽的供品。”And then she would pout like a disappointed child; a pensive cloud would soften her radiant vivacity; she would withdraw her hand hastily from his, and turn in transient petulance from his aspect, at once so heroic and so martyr-like.  St. John, no doubt, would have given the world to follow, recall, retain her, when she thus left him; but he would not give one chance of heaven, nor relinquish, for the elysium of her love, one hope of the true, eternal Paradise.  Besides, he could not bind all that he had in his nature—the rover, the aspirant, the poet, the priest—in the limits of a single passion.  He could not—he would not—renounce his wild field of mission warfare for the parlours and the peace of Vale Hall.  I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once, despite his reserve, had the daring to make on his confidence.而随后她会像失望的孩子那样板着脸，一片阴沉的乌云会掩去她光芒四射的活力。她会急忙从他那里抽出手来，使一会儿性子，从他既像英雄又像殉道者的面孔转开。她离开他时，圣•约翰无疑愿意不顾一切地跟随着，叫唤她，留她下来、但是他不愿放弃进入天国的机会，也不愿为了她爱情的一片乐土，而放弃踏进真正的、永久的天堂的希望。此外，他无法把他的一切集于自己的个性之中，——流浪汉、追求者、诗人和牧师——集中于一种情感的局限之内。他不能——也不会——放弃布道的战场，而要溪谷庄的客厅和宁静。尽管他守口如瓶，但我有一次还是大胆地闯进他内心的密室，因此从他本人那儿了解到了如许秘密。Miss Oliver already honoured me with frequent visits to my cottage.  I had learnt her whole character, which was without mystery or disguise: she was coquettish but not heartless; exacting, but not worthlessly selfish.  She had been indulged from her birth, but was not absolutely spoilt.  She was hasty, but good-humoured; vain (she could not help it, when every glance in the glass showed her such a flush of loveliness), but not affected; liberal-handed; innocent of the pride of wealth; ingenuous; sufficiently intelligent; gay, lively, and unthinking: she was very charming, in short, even to a cool observer of her own sex like me; but she was not profoundly interesting or thoroughly impressive.  A very different sort of mind was hers from that, for instance, of the sisters of St. John.  Still, I liked her almost as I liked my pupil Adèle; except that, for a child whom we have watched over and taught, a closer affection is engendered than we can give an equally attractive adult acquaintance.奥利弗小姐经常造访我的小屋，使我不胜荣幸。我已了解她的全部性格，它既无秘密，也没有遮掩。她爱卖弄风情，但并不冷酷；她苛刻，但并非自私得一钱不值；她从小受到宠爱，但并没有被完全惯坏；她性子急，但脾气好；爱慕虚荣（在她也难怪，镜子里随便瞟一眼都照出了她的可爱），但并不装腔作势；她出手大方。却并不因为有钱而自鸣得意；她头脑机灵，相当聪明，快乐活泼而无所用心。总之她很迷人，即使是对象我这样同性别的冷眼旁观者，也是如此。但她并不能使人深感兴趣，或者留下难以磨灭的印象。譬如同圣•约翰的妹妹们相比，属于一种截然不同的头脑。但我仍象喜欢我的学生阿黛勒那样喜欢她，所不同的是，我们会对自己看护和教育的孩子，产生一种比对同祥可爱的成年朋友亲近的感情。She had taken an amiable caprice to me.  She said I was like Mr. Rivers, only, certainly, she allowed, “not one-tenth so handsome, though I was a nice neat little soul enough, but he was an angel.”  I was, however, good, clever, composed, and firm, like him.  I was a lusus naturæ, she affirmed, as a village schoolmistress: she was sure my previous history, if known, would make a delightful romance.她心血来潮，对我产生了好感。她说我像里弗斯先生（当然只不过她宣布“没有他的十分之一漂亮，尽管你是个整洁可爱的小个子，但他是个天使”）。然而我象他那样为人很好，聪明、冷静、坚定。她断言，作为一个乡村女教师，我天性是个怪人。她确信，要是我以前的历史给透露出来，一定会成为一部有趣的传奇。One evening, while, with her usual child-like activity, and thoughtless yet not offensive inquisitiveness, she was rummaging the cupboard and the table-drawer of my little kitchen, she discovered first two French books, a volume of Schiller, a German grammar and dictionary, and then my drawing-materials and some sketches, including a pencil-head of a pretty little cherub-like girl, one of my scholars, and sundry views from nature, taken in the Vale of Morton and on the surrounding moors.  She was first transfixed with surprise, and then electrified with delight.一天晚上，她照例像孩子一样好动，粗心却并不冒犯地问这问那，一面翻着我小厨房里的碗橱和桌子的抽屉。她看到了两本法文书，一卷席勒的作品，一本德文语法和词典。随后又看到了我的绘画材料，几张速写，其中包括用铅笔画的一个小天使般的小姑娘、我的一个学生的头像和取自莫尔顿溪谷及周围荒原的不同自然景色。她先是惊讶得发呆，随后是高兴得激动不已。“Had I done these pictures?  Did I know French and German?  What a love—what a miracle I was!  I drew better than her master in the first school in S-.  Would I sketch a portrait of her, to show to papa?”“是你画的吗？你懂法文和德文？你真可爱—一真是个奇迹！你比Ｓ城第一所学校的教师还画得好。你愿意为我画一张让我爸爸看看吗？”“With pleasure,” I replied; and I felt a thrill of artist-delight at the idea of copying from so perfect and radiant a model.  She had then on a dark-blue silk dress; her arms and her neck were bare; her only ornament was her chestnut tresses, which waved over her shoulders with all the wild grace of natural curls.  I took a sheet of fine card-board, and drew a careful outline.  I promised myself the pleasure of colouring it; and, as it was getting late then, I told her she must come and sit another day.“很乐意，”我回答。一想到要照着这样一个如此完美、如此容光焕发的模特儿画，我便感到了艺术家喜悦的颤栗。那时她穿了深蓝色的丝绸衣服；裸露着胳膊和脖子，唯一的装饰是她栗色的头发，以一种天然卷曲所有的不加修饰的雅致，波浪似地从肩上披下来。我拿了一张精致的卡纸，仔细地画了轮廓，并打算享受将它上彩的乐趣。由于当时天色已晚，我告诉她得改天再坐下来让我画了。She made such a report of me to her father, that Mr. Oliver himself accompanied her next evening—a tall, massive-featured, middle-aged, and grey-headed man, at whose side his lovely daughter looked like a bright flower near a hoary turret.  He appeared a taciturn, and perhaps a proud personage; but he was very kind to me.  The sketch of Rosamond’s portrait pleased him highly: he said I must make a finished picture of it.  He insisted, too, on my coming the next day to spend the evening at Vale Hall.她把我的情况向她父亲作了详尽的报告，结果第二天晚上奥利弗先生居然亲自陪着她来了。他高个子，五官粗大，中等年纪，头发灰白。身边那位可爱的的女儿看上去象一座古塔旁的一朵鲜花。他似乎是个沉默寡言，或许还很自负的人，但对我很客气。罗莎蒙德的那张速写画很使他高兴。他嘱我千万要把它完成，还坚持要我第二天去溪谷庄度过一个夜晚。I went.  I found it a large, handsome residence, showing abundant evidences of wealth in the proprietor.  Rosamond was full of glee and pleasure all the time I stayed.  Her father was affable; and when he entered into conversation with me after tea, he expressed in strong terms his approbation of what I had done in Morton school, and said he only feared, from what he saw and heard, I was too good for the place, and would soon quit it for one more suitable.我去了，发现这是一所宽敞漂亮的住宅，充分显出主人的富有。我呆在那里时罗莎蒙德一直非常高兴。她父亲和蔼可亲，茶点以后开始同我们交谈时，用很强烈的字眼，对我在莫尔顿学校所做的，表示十分满意。还说就他所见所闻，他担心我在这个地方大材小用，会很快离去干一项更合适的工作。“Indeed,” cried Rosamond, “she is clever enough to be a governess in a high family, papa.”“真的!”罗莎蒙德嚷道，“她那么聪明，做一个名门家庭的女教师绰绰有余，爸爸。”I thought I would far rather be where I am than in any high family in the land.  Mr. Oliver spoke of Mr. Rivers—of the Rivers family—with great respect.  He said it was a very old name in that neighbourhood; that the ancestors of the house were wealthy; that all Morton had once belonged to them; that even now he considered the representative of that house might, if he liked, make an alliance with the best.  He accounted it a pity that so fine and talented a young man should have formed the design of going out as a missionary; it was quite throwing a valuable life away.  It appeared, then, that her father would throw no obstacle in the way of Rosamond’s union with St. John.  Mr. Oliver evidently regarded the young clergyman’s good birth, old name, and sacred profession as sufficient compensation for the want of fortune.我想——与其到国内哪个名门家庭，远不如在这里。奥利弗先生说起了里弗斯先生——说起了里弗斯的家庭——肃然起敬。他说在附近地区，这是一个古老的名字，这家的祖宗都很有钱，整个莫尔顿一度属于他们。甚至现在，他认为这家的代表要是乐意，满可以同最好的家庭联姻。他觉得这么好、这么有才能的一个年青人竟然决定出家当传教士，实在可惜。那等于抛弃了一种很有价值的生活。那么看来罗莎蒙德的父亲不会在她与圣•约翰结合的道路上设置任何障碍。奥利弗先生显然认为青年牧师的良好出身、古老的名字和神圣的职业是对他缺乏家财的足够补偿。It was the 5th of November, and a holiday.  My little servant, after helping me to clean my house, was gone, well satisfied with the fee of a penny for her aid.  All about me was spotless and bright—scoured floor, polished grate, and well-rubbed chairs.  I had also made myself neat, and had now the afternoon before me to spend as I would.那天是十一月五日，一个假日。我的小佣人帮我清扫了房子后走掉了，对一个便士的酬劳十分满意。我周围窗明几净，一尘不染——擦洗过的地板，磨得锃亮的炉格和擦得干干净净的椅子。我把自己也弄得整整齐齐，这会儿整个下午就随我度过了。The translation of a few pages of German occupied an hour; then I got my palette and pencils, and fell to the more soothing, because easier occupation, of completing Rosamond Oliver’s miniature.  The head was finished already: there was but the background to tint and the drapery to shade off; a touch of carmine, too, to add to the ripe lips—a soft curl here and there to the tresses—a deeper tinge to the shadow of the lash under the azured eyelid.  I was absorbed in the execution of these nice details, when, after one rapid tap, my door unclosed, admitting St. John Rivers.翻译几页德文占去了我一个小时。随后我拿了画板和画笔，开始了更为容易因而也更加惬意的工作，完成罗莎蒙德．奥利弗的小画像。头部已经画好，剩下的只是给背景着色，给服饰画上阴影，再在成熟的嘴唇上添一抹胭脂红，——头发这儿那儿再画上一点柔软的卷发——把天蓝的眼盖下睫毛的阴影加深一些。我正全神贯注地画着这些有趣的细节，一阵急促的敲门声响了起来，我那扇门开了，圣•约翰•里弗斯先生走了进来。“I am come to see how you are spending your holiday,” he said.  “Not, I hope, in thought?  No, that is well: while you draw you will not feel lonely.  You see, I mistrust you still, though you have borne up wonderfully so far.  I have brought you a book for evening solace,” and he laid on the table a new publication—a poem: one of those genuine productions so often vouchsafed to the fortunate public of those days—the golden age of modern literature.  Alas! the readers of our era are less favoured.  But courage!  I will not pause either to accuse or repine.  I know poetry is not dead, nor genius lost; nor has Mammon gained power over either, to bind or slay: they will both assert their existence, their presence, their liberty and strength again one day.  Powerful angels, safe in heaven! they smile when sordid souls triumph, and feeble ones weep over their destruction.  Poetry destroyed?  Genius banished?  No!  Mediocrity, no: do not let envy prompt you to the thought.  No; they not only live, but reign and redeem: and without their divine influence spread everywhere, you would be in hell—the hell of your own meanness.“我来看看你怎么过假日，”他说。“但愿没有动什么脑筋？没有，那很好，你一画画就不感到寂莫了。你瞧，我还是不大相信，尽管你到目前为止还是很好地挺过来了，我给你带来了一本书供你晚上消遣，”他把一本新出版的书放在桌上——一部诗：是那个时代——现代文学的黄金时代常常赐予幸运的公众一本货真价实的出版物。哎呀！我们这个时代的读者却没有那份福气。不过拿出勇气来！我不会停下来控诉或者发牢骚。我知道诗歌并没有死亡，天才并未销声匿迹，财神爷也没有把两者征服，把他们捆绑起来或者杀掉，总有一天两者都会表明自己的存在、风采、自由和力量。强大的天使，稳坐天堂吧！当肮脏的灵魂获得胜利，弱者为自己的毁灭恸哭时，他们微笑着。诗歌被毁灭了吗？天才遭到了驱逐吗？没有！中不溜儿的人们，不，别让嫉妒激起你这种想法。不，他们不仅还活着，而且统治着，拯救着。没有它们无处不在的神圣影响，你会进地狱——你自己的卑微所造成的地狱。While I was eagerly glancing at the bright pages of “Marmion” (for “Marmion” it was), St. John stooped to examine my drawing.  His tall figure sprang erect again with a start: he said nothing.  I looked up at him: he shunned my eye.  I knew his thoughts well, and could read his heart plainly; at the moment I felt calmer and cooler than he: I had then temporarily the advantage of him, and I conceived an inclination to do him some good, if I could.我急不可耐地浏览着《玛米昂》辉煌的篇章（因为《玛米昂》确实如此）时，圣•约翰俯身细看起我的画来。他蓦地惊跳起来，拉直了高高的身子。他什么也没有说，我抬头看他，他避开了我的目光，我很明白他的想法，能直截了当地看出他的心思来。这时候我觉得比他镇定和冷静。随后我暂时占了优势，产生了在可能情况下帮他做些好事的想法。“With all his firmness and self-control,” thought I, “he tasks himself too far: locks every feeling and pang within—expresses, confesses, imparts nothing.  I am sure it would benefit him to talk a little about this sweet Rosamond, whom he thinks he ought not to marry: I will make him talk.”“他那么坚定不移和一味自我控制，”我想，“实在太苛刻自己了。他把每种情感和痛苦都锁在内心——什么也不表白，不流露，不告诉。我深信，谈一点他认为不应当娶的可爱的罗莎蒙德，会对他有好处。我要使他开口。”I said first, “Take a chair, Mr. Rivers.”  But he answered, as he always did, that he could not stay.  “Very well,” I responded, mentally, “stand if you like; but you shall not go just yet, I am determined: solitude is at least as bad for you as it is for me.  I’ll try if I cannot discover the secret spring of your confidence, and find an aperture in that marble breast through which I can shed one drop of the balm of sympathy.”我先是说：“坐一下，里弗斯先生，”可是他照例又回答说，不能逗留。“很好，”我心里回答，“要是你高兴，你就站着吧，但你还不能走，我的决心已下。寂寞对你和对我至少是一样不好，我倒要试试，看我能不能发现你内心的秘密，在你大理石般的胸膛找到一个孔，从那里我可以灌进一滴同情的香油。”“Is this portrait like?” I asked bluntly.“这幅画像不像？”我直截了当地问。“Like!  Like whom?  I did not observe it closely.”“像！像谁呀？我没细看。”“You did, Mr. Rivers.”“你看了，里弗斯先生。”He almost started at my sudden and strange abruptness: he looked at me astonished.  “Oh, that is nothing yet,” I muttered within.  “I don’t mean to be baffled by a little stiffness on your part; I’m prepared to go to considerable lengths.”  I continued, “You observed it closely and distinctly; but I have no objection to your looking at it again,” and I rose and placed it in his hand.他被我直率得有些突然和奇怪的发问弄得几乎跳了起来，惊异地看着我。“呵，那还算不了什么，”我心里嘟哝着。“我不想因为你一点点生硬态度而罢休。我准备付出巨大的努力。”我继续想道，“你看得很仔细很清楚，但我不反对你再看一遍。”我站起来把画放在他手里。“A well-executed picture,” he said; “very soft, clear colouring; very graceful and correct drawing.”“一张画得很好的画，”他说，“色彩柔和清晰，是一张很优美、很恰当的画。”“Yes, yes; I know all that.  But what of the resemblance?  Who is it like?”“是呀，是呀，这我都知道。不过像不像呢？这像谁？”Mastering some hesitation, he answered, “Miss Oliver, I presume.”他打消了某种犹豫，回答说：“我想是奥利弗小姐。”“Of course.  And now, sir, to reward you for the accurate guess, I will promise to paint you a careful and faithful duplicate of this very picture, provided you admit that the gift would be acceptable to you.  I don’t wish to throw away my time and trouble on an offering you would deem worthless.”“当然。而现在，先生，为了奖励你猜得准，我答应给我创作一幅精细准确的复制品，要是你答应这个礼物是可以接受的。我不想把时间和精力化在一件你认为毫无价值的东西上。”He continued to gaze at the picture: the longer he looked, the firmer he held it, the more he seemed to covet it.  “It is like!” he murmured; “the eye is well managed: the colour, light, expression, are perfect.  It smiles!”他继续凝视着这张画。他看得越久就把画捧得越紧，同时也似乎越想看它。“是很像！”他喃喃地说。“眼睛画得很好。颜色、光线、表情都很完美。它微笑着！”“Would it comfort, or would it wound you to have a similar painting?  Tell me that.  When you are at Madagascar, or at the Cape, or in India, would it be a consolation to have that memento in your possession? or would the sight of it bring recollections calculated to enervate and distress?”“保存一张复制品会使你感到安慰呢，还是会伤你的心？请你告诉我。当你在马达加斯加，或者好望角，或者印度，在你的行囊中有这样的纪念品，对你是一种安慰呢，还是一看见就激起你令人丧气和难受的回忆？”He now furtively raised his eyes: he glanced at me, irresolute, disturbed: he again surveyed the picture.这时他偷偷地抬起眼来。他犹犹豫豫忐忑不安地看了我一眼，再次细看起这幅画来。“That I should like to have it is certain: whether it would be judicious or wise is another question.”“我是肯定要的，不过这样做是不是审慎或明智，那就是另外一回事了。”Since I had ascertained that Rosamond really preferred him, and that her father was not likely to oppose the match, I—less exalted in my views than St. John—had been strongly disposed in my own heart to advocate their union.  It seemed to me that, should he become the possessor of Mr. Oliver’s large fortune, he might do as much good with it as if he went and laid his genius out to wither, and his strength to waste, under a tropical sun.  With this persuasion I now answered—既然我已弄明白罗莎蒙德真的喜欢他，她的父亲也不大可能反对这门亲事，我——我对自己的观点并不像圣•约翰那样得意扬扬——我心里完全倾向于主张他们的结合。我觉得要是他能获得奥利弗先生的大宗财产，他可以用这笔钱做很多事情，强似在热带的太阳下让才能枯竭，让力气白费。想着可以这么劝说他，我此刻回答说：“As far as I can see, it would be wiser and more judicious if you were to take to yourself the original at once.”“依我看来，立刻把画中的本人要走，倒是更明智和更有识见的。”By this time he had sat down: he had laid the picture on the table before him, and with his brow supported on both hands, hung fondly over it.  I discerned he was now neither angry nor shocked at my audacity.  I saw even that to be thus frankly addressed on a subject he had deemed unapproachable—to hear it thus freely handled—was beginning to be felt by him as a new pleasure—an unhoped-for relief.  Reserved people often really need the frank discussion of their sentiments and griefs more than the expansive.  The sternest-seeming stoic is human after all; and to “burst” with boldness and good-will into “the silent sea” of their souls is often to confer on them the first of obligations.这时候他已坐了下来，把画放在面前的桌子上，双手支撑着额头，多情地反复看着这张画。我发觉他对我的大胆放肆既不发火也不感到震惊。我甚至还看到，那么坦率地谈论一个他认为不可接触的话题——听这个话题任意处理——开始被他感到是一种新的乐趣——一种出乎意外的宽慰。沉默寡言的人常常要比性格爽朗的人更需要直率地讨论他们的感情和不幸，看似最严酷的禁欲主义者毕竟也是人。大胆和好心“闯入”他们灵魂的“沉寂大海”，常常等于是赋予他们最好的恩惠。“She likes you, I am sure,” said I, as I stood behind his chair, “and her father respects you.  Moreover, she is a sweet girl—rather thoughtless; but you would have sufficient thought for both yourself and her.  You ought to marry her.”“她喜欢你，我敢肯定，”我站在他椅子背后说，“她的父亲尊重你，此外，她是个可爱的姑娘——不大有想法。但你会有够你们两个管用的想法。你应当娶她。”“Does she like me?” he asked.“难道她喜欢我？”他问。“Certainly; better than she likes any one else.  She talks of you continually: there is no subject she enjoys so much or touches upon so often.”“当然，胜过爱任何其他人。她不断谈起你，没有比这个更使她喜欢或者触及得更多的话题了。”“It is very pleasant to hear this,” he said—“very: go on for another quarter of an hour.”  And he actually took out his watch and laid it upon the table to measure the time.“很高兴听你这样说，”他说——“很高兴，再淡一刻钟吧。”他真的取出手表，放在桌上掌握时间。“But where is the use of going on,” I asked, “when you are probably preparing some iron blow of contradiction, or forging a fresh chain to fetter your heart?”“可是继续谈有什么用？”我问，“既然你也许正在浇铸反抗的铁拳，或者锻造新的链条把自己的心束缚起来。”“Don’t imagine such hard things.  Fancy me yielding and melting, as I am doing: human love rising like a freshly opened fountain in my mind and overflowing with sweet inundation all the field I have so carefully and with such labour prepared—so assiduously sown with the seeds of good intentions, of self-denying plans.  And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood—the young germs swamped—delicious poison cankering them: now I see myself stretched on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver’s feet: she is talking to me with her sweet voice—gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well—smiling at me with these coral lips.  She is mine—I am hers—this present life and passing world suffice to me.  Hush! say nothing—my heart is full of delight—my senses are entranced—let the time I marked pass in peace.”“别想这些严酷无情的东西了。要想象我让步了，被感化了，就像我正在做的那样。人类的爱像是我心田里新开辟的喷泉，不断上涨，甜蜜的洪水四溢，流淌到了我仔细而辛劳地开垦出来的田野——这里辛勤地播种着善意和自我克制的种子。现在这里泛滥着甜美的洪水——稚嫩的萌芽已被淹没——可口的毒药腐蚀着它们。此刻我看到自己躺在溪谷庄休息室的睡榻上，在我的新娘罗莎蒙德．奥利弗的脚跟前。她用那甜甜的嗓音同我在说话——用被你灵巧的手画得那么逼真的眼睛俯视着我——她那珊瑚色的嘴唇朝我微笑着——她是我的——我是她的——眼前的生活和过眼烟云般的世界对我已经足够了。嘘！别张嘴！一—我欣喜万分——我神魂颠倒—让我平静地度过我所规定的时间。”I humoured him: the watch ticked on: he breathed fast and low: I stood silent.  Amidst this hush the quartet sped; he replaced the watch, laid the picture down, rose, and stood on the hearth.我满足了他。手表嘀嗒嘀嗒响着，他的呼吸时紧时慢，我默默地站着。在一片静谧中一刻钟过去了。他拿起手表，放下画，立起来，站在壁炉边。“Now,” said he, “that little space was given to delirium and delusion.  I rested my temples on the breast of temptation, and put my neck voluntarily under her yoke of flowers.  I tasted her cup.  The pillow was burning: there is an asp in the garland: the wine has a bitter taste: her promises are hollow—her offers false: I see and know all this.”“行啦，”他说，“在那一小段时间中我己沉溺于痴心妄想了。我把脑袋靠在诱惑的胸口，心甘情愿地把脖子伸向她花一般的枷锁。我尝了她的酒杯，枕头还燃着火，花环里有一条毒蛇，酒有苦味，她的允诺是空的——建议是假的。这一切我都明白。”I gazed at him in wonder.我惊诧不己地瞪着他。“It is strange,” pursued he, “that while I love Rosamond Oliver so wildly—with all the intensity, indeed, of a first passion, the object of which is exquisitely beautiful, graceful, fascinating—I experience at the same time a calm, unwarped consciousness that she would not make me a good wife; that she is not the partner suited to me; that I should discover this within a year after marriage; and that to twelve months’ rapture would succeed a lifetime of regret.  This I know.”“事情也怪，”他说下去，“我那么狂热地爱着罗莎蒙德．奥利弗——说真的怀着初恋的全部热情，而恋上的对象绝对漂亮、优雅、迷人——与此同时我又有一种宁静而不偏不倚的感悟，觉得她不会当个好妻子，不是适合我的伴侣，婚后一年之内我便会发现。十二个月销魂似的日子之后，接踵而来的是终身遗憾。这我知道。”“Strange indeed!” I could not help ejaculating.“奇怪，真奇怪！”我禁不住叫了起来。“While something in me,” he went on, “is acutely sensible to her charms, something else is as deeply impressed with her defects: they are such that she could sympathise in nothing I aspired to—co-operate in nothing I undertook.  Rosamond a sufferer, a labourer, a female apostle?  Rosamond a missionary’s wife?  No!”“我内心的某一方面，”他说下去，对她的魅力深为敏感，但另一方面对她的缺陷，印象也很深。那就是她无法对我所追求的产生共鸣——不能为我所做的事业携手合作。难道罗莎蒙德是一个吃得起苦的人，一个劳作者，一个女使徒吗？难道罗莎蒙德是一个传教士的妻子？不！”“But you need not be a missionary.  You might relinquish that scheme.”“不过你不必当传教士？你可以放弃那个打算。”“Relinquish!  What! my vocation?  My great work?  My foundation laid on earth for a mansion in heaven?  My hopes of being numbered in the band who have merged all ambitions in the glorious one of bettering their race—of carrying knowledge into the realms of ignorance—of substituting peace for war—freedom for bondage—religion for superstition—the hope of heaven for the fear of hell?  Must I relinquish that?  It is dearer than the blood in my veins.  It is what I have to look forward to, and to live for.”“放弃！什么——我的职业？我的伟大的工作？我为天堂里的大厦在世间所打的基础？我要成为那一小群人的希望？这群人把自己的一切雄心壮志同那桩光荣的事业合而为一，那就是提高他们的种族——把知识传播到无知的领域——用和平代替战争——用自由代替束缚——宗教代替迷信——上天堂的愿望代替入地狱的恐俱。难道连这也得放弃？它比我血管里流的血还可贵。这正是我所向往的，是我活着的目的。”After a considerable pause, I said—“And Miss Oliver?  Are her disappointment and sorrow of no interest to you?”他沉默了好长一会儿后，我说——“那么奥利弗小姐呢，难道你就不关心她的失望和哀伤了？”“Miss Oliver is ever surrounded by suitors and flatterers: in less than a month, my image will be effaced from her heart.  She will forget me; and will marry, probably, some one who will make her far happier than I should do.”“奥利弗小姐向来有一大群求婚者和献殷勤的人围着她转，不到一个月，我的形象会从她心坎里抹去，她会忘掉我，很可能会跟一个比我更能使她幸福的人结婚。”“You speak coolly enough; but you suffer in the conflict.  You are wasting away.”“你说得倒够冷静的，不过你内心很矛盾，很痛苦。你日见消瘦。”“No.  If I get a little thin, it is with anxiety about my prospects, yet unsettled—my departure, continually procrastinated.  Only this morning, I received intelligence that the successor, whose arrival I have been so long expecting, cannot be ready to replace me for three months to come yet; and perhaps the three months may extend to six.”“不，要是我有点儿瘦，那是我为悬而未决的前景担忧的缘故——我的离别日期一拖再拖。就是今大早上我还接到了消息，我一直盼着的后继者，三个月之内无法接替我，也许这三个月又会延长到六个月。”“You tremble and become flushed whenever Miss Oliver enters the schoolroom.”“无论什么时候，奥利弗小姐一走进教室你就颤抖起来、脸涨得通红。”Again the surprised expression crossed his face.  He had not imagined that a woman would dare to speak so to a man.  For me, I felt at home in this sort of discourse.  I could never rest in communication with strong, discreet, and refined minds, whether male or female, till I had passed the outworks of conventional reserve, and crossed the threshold of confidence, and won a place by their heart’s very hearthstone.他脸上再次浮起惊讶的表情。他想象不到一个女人居然敢于这么同一个男人说话。至于我，这—类交谈我非常习惯。我与很有头脑、言语谨慎、富有教养的人交际的时候，不管是男人还是女人，我非要绕过缄默的传统防卫工事，踏进奥秘的门槛，在心坎的火炉边上找到一个位置才肯罢休。“You are original,” said he, “and not timid.  There is something brave in your spirit, as well as penetrating in your eye; but allow me to assure you that you partially misinterpret my emotions.  You think them more profound and potent than they are.  You give me a larger allowance of sympathy than I have a just claim to.  When I colour, and when I shade before Miss Oliver, I do not pity myself.  I scorn the weakness.  I know it is ignoble: a mere fever of the flesh: not, I declare, the convulsion of the soul.  That is just as fixed as a rock, firm set in the depths of a restless sea.  Know me to be what I am—a cold hard man.”“你确实见解独到，”他说，“胆子也不小。你的精神中有一种勇气，你的眼睛有一种穿透力，可是请允许我向你保证，你部份误解了我的情感。你把这些情感想象得比实际的要深沉，要强烈。你给了我甚于我正当要求的同情。我在奥利弗小姐面前脸红，颤抖时，我不是怜悯自己，而是蔑视我的弱点。我知道这并不光彩，它不过是肉体的狂热，我宣布，不是灵魂的抽搐。那灵魂坚加磐石，牢牢扎在骚动不安的大海深处。你知道我是怎么个人——一个冷酷无情的人。”I smiled incredulously.我怀疑地笑了笑。“You have taken my confidence by storm,” he continued, “and now it is much at your service.  I am simply, in my original state—stripped of that blood-bleached robe with which Christianity covers human deformity—a cold, hard, ambitious man.  Natural affection only, of all the sentiments, has permanent power over me.  Reason, and not feeling, is my guide; my ambition is unlimited: my desire to rise higher, to do more than others, insatiable.  I honour endurance, perseverance, industry, talent; because these are the means by which men achieve great ends and mount to lofty eminence.  I watch your career with interest, because I consider you a specimen of a diligent, orderly, energetic woman: not because I deeply compassionate what you have gone through, or what you still suffer.”“你用突然袭击的办法掏出了我的心里话，”他继续说，“现在就听任你摆布了，剥去用基督教义来掩盖人性缺陷、漂净了血污的袍子，我本是个冷酷无情雄心勃勃的人。只有各种天生的情感会对我产生永久的力量。我的向导是理智而并非情感，我的雄心没有止境，我要比别人爬得高干得多的欲望永不能满足。我尊崇忍耐、坚持、勤勉和才能，因为这是人要干大事业，出大名的必要条件。我兴趣十足地观察了你的经历，因为我认为你是勤勤恳恳、有条有理、精力充沛的女人的典范，倒并不是因为我对你所经历的或正在受的苦深表同情。”“You would describe yourself as a mere pagan philosopher,” I said.“你会把自己描述成不过是位异教徒哲学家的。”我说。“No.  There is this difference between me and deistic philosophers: I believe; and I believe the Gospel.  You missed your epithet.  I am not a pagan, but a Christian philosopher—a follower of the sect of Jesus.  As His disciple I adopt His pure, His merciful, His benignant doctrines.  I advocate them: I am sworn to spread them.  Won in youth to religion, she has cultivated my original qualities thus:—From the minute germ, natural affection, she has developed the overshadowing tree, philanthropy.  From the wild stringy root of human uprightness, she has reared a due sense of the Divine justice.  Of the ambition to win power and renown for my wretched self, she has formed the ambition to spread my Master’s kingdom; to achieve victories for the standard of the cross.  So much has religion done for me; turning the original materials to the best account; pruning and training nature.  But she could not eradicate nature: nor will it be eradicated ‘till this mortal shall put on immortality.’”“不，我与自然神论的哲学家之间是有区别的：我有信仰，我信奉福音。你用错了修饰语。我不是异教徒哲学家，正是基督教哲学家——一个耶稣教派的信徒，作为他的信徒，我信仰他纯洁、宽厚、仁慈的教义。我主张这样的教义、发誓要为之传播，我年轻时就信仰宗教，于是宗教培养了我最初的品格——它已从小小的幼芽，自然的情感，长成浓荫蔽日的大树，变成了慈善主义，从人类真诚品质的粗糙野生的根子上，相应长出了神圣的公正感。把我为可怜的自我谋求权力和名声的雄心，变成扩大主的天地、为十字架旗帜获得胜利的大志。宗教已为我做了很多，把原始的天性变成最好的品质、修剪和培育了天性。但是无法根除天性，天性也不可能根除，直到“这必死的变成不死的’时候。”Having said this, he took his hat, which lay on the table beside my palette.  Once more he looked at the portrait.说完，他拿起放在桌上我画板旁的帽子，再一次看了看画像。“She is lovely,” he murmured.  “She is well named the Rose of the World, indeed!”“她的确可爱，”他喃喃地说。“她不愧为世界上最好的玫瑰，真的。”“And may I not paint one like it for you?”“我可不可以画一张像这样的给你呢？”“Cui bono?  No.”“干嘛？不必了。”He drew over the picture the sheet of thin paper on which I was accustomed to rest my hand in painting, to prevent the cardboard from being sullied.  What he suddenly saw on this blank paper, it was impossible for me to tell; but something had caught his eye.  He took it up with a snatch; he looked at the edge; then shot a glance at me, inexpressibly peculiar, and quite incomprehensible: a glance that seemed to take and make note of every point in my shape, face, and dress; for it traversed all, quick, keen as lightning.  His lips parted, as if to speak: but he checked the coming sentence, whatever it was.他拉过一张薄薄的纸盖在画上，这张纸是我平常作画时怕弄脏纸板常作为垫手用的。他突然在这张空白纸上究竟看到了什么，我无法判断。但某种东西引起了他的注意。他猛地拣起来，看了看纸边，随后瞟了我一眼，那目光奇怪得难以形容，而旦不可理解，似乎摄取并记下了我的体态、面容和服饰的每个细节。它一扫而过，犹如闪电般迅速和锐利。他张开嘴唇，似乎想说话，但把到了嘴边的什么话咽了下去。“What is the matter?” I asked.“怎么回事？”我问。“Nothing in the world,” was the reply; and, replacing the paper, I saw him dexterously tear a narrow slip from the margin.  It disappeared in his glove; and, with one hasty nod and “good-afternoon,” he vanished.“什么事也没有”对方回答，一面又把纸放下。我见他利索地从边上撕下一小条，放进了手套，匆勿忙忙点了点头。“下午好，”就消失得无影无踪了。“Well!” I exclaimed, using an expression of the district, “that caps the globe, however!”“嗨！”我用那个地区的一个短语嚷道：“这可绝了！”I, in my turn, scrutinised the paper; but saw nothing on it save a few dingy stains of paint where I had tried the tint in my pencil.  I pondered the mystery a minute or two; but finding it insolvable, and being certain it could not be of much moment, I dismissed, and soon forgot it.我呢，仔细看了看那张纸，但除了我试画笔色泽所留下的几滴暗淡的污渍，我什么也没有看到。我把这个谜琢磨了一两分钟，但无法解开。我相信这也无关紧要，便不再去想它，不久也就忘了。CHAPTER XXXIII第三十三When Mr. St. John went, it was beginning to snow; the whirling storm continued all night.  The next day a keen wind brought fresh and blinding falls; by twilight the valley was drifted up and almost impassable.  I had closed my shutter, laid a mat to the door to prevent the snow from blowing in under it, trimmed my fire, and after sitting nearly an hour on the hearth listening to the muffled fury of the tempest, I lit a candle, took down “Marmion,” and beginning—章圣•约翰先生走掉后，天开始下雪了。暴风雷刮了整整一夜。第二天刺骨的风又带来茫茫大雪，到了黄昏，雪积山谷，道路几乎不通。我关了窗，把一个垫子挂在门上，免得雪从门底下吹进来，整了整火，在炉边坐了近一个小时，倾听着暴风雪低沉的怒吼，我点了根蜡烛，取来了《玛米昂》，开始读了起来——“Day set on Norham’s castled steep,
And Tweed’s fair river broad and deep,
   And Cheviot’s mountains lone;
The massive towers, the donjon keep,
The flanking walls that round them sweep,
   In yellow lustre shone”—残阳照着诺汉那城堡峭立的陡壁，
美丽的特威德河又宽又深，
契维奥特山孑然独立；
气势雄伟的塔楼和城堡的主垒，
两侧那绵延不绝的围墙，
都在落日余辉中闪动着金光。I soon forgot storm in music.我立刻沉浸在音乐之中，忘掉了暴风雪。I heard a noise: the wind, I thought, shook the door.  No; it was St. John Rivers, who, lifting the latch, came in out of the frozen hurricane—the howling darkness—and stood before me: the cloak that covered his tall figure all white as a glacier.  I was almost in consternation, so little had I expected any guest from the blocked-up vale that night.我听见了一声响动，心想一定是风摇动着门的声音。不，是圣•约翰•里弗斯先生，从天寒地冻的暴风雪中，从怒吼着的黑暗中走出来，拉开门栓，站有我面前。遮盖着他高高身躯的斗篷，像冰川一样一片雪白，我几乎有些惊慌了，在这样的夜晚我不曾料到会有穿过积雪封冻的山谷，前来造访的客人。“Any ill news?” I demanded.  “Has anything happened?”“有什么坏消息吧？”我问。“出了什么事吗？”“No.  How very easily alarmed you are!” he answered, removing his cloak and hanging it up against the door, towards which he again coolly pushed the mat which his entrance had deranged.  He stamped the snow from his boots.“没有，你那么容易受惊！”他回答，一边脱下斗篷，挂在门上。他冷冷地推了推进来时被他弄歪了的垫子，跺了跺脚，把靴子上的雪抖掉。“I shall sully the purity of your floor,” said he, “but you must excuse me for once.”  Then he approached the fire.  “I have had hard work to get here, I assure you,” he observed, as he warmed his hands over the flame.  “One drift took me up to the waist; happily the snow is quite soft yet.”“我会把你干净的地板弄脏的，”他说，“不过你得原谅我一回。”随后他走近火炉。“说真的，我好不容易到了这儿，”他一面在火焰上烘着手，一面说，“有一堆积雪让我陷到了腰部、幸亏雪很软。”“But why are you come?” I could not forbear saying.“可是你干嘛要来呢，”我忍不住说。“Rather an inhospitable question to put to a visitor; but since you ask it, I answer simply to have a little talk with you; I got tired of my mute books and empty rooms.  Besides, since yesterday I have experienced the excitement of a person to whom a tale has been half-told, and who is impatient to hear the sequel.”“这么问客人是不大客气的。不过既然你问了，我就回答，纯粹是想要同你聊一会儿。不会出声的书，空空荡荡的房间，我都厌倦了。此外，从昨天起我便有些激动不安，像是一个人听了半截故事，急不可耐地要听下去一样。”He sat down.  I recalled his singular conduct of yesterday, and really I began to fear his wits were touched.  If he were insane, however, his was a very cool and collected insanity: I had never seen that handsome-featured face of his look more like chiselled marble than it did just now, as he put aside his snow-wet hair from his forehead and let the firelight shine free on his pale brow and cheek as pale, where it grieved me to discover the hollow trace of care or sorrow now so plainly graved.  I waited, expecting he would say something I could at least comprehend; but his hand was now at his chin, his finger on his lip: he was thinking.  It struck me that his hand looked wasted like his face.  A perhaps uncalled-for gush of pity came over my heart: I was moved to say—他坐了下来。我回想起他昨天奇怪的举动，真的开始担心他的理智受到了影响。然而要是他神经错乱了，那他的错乱还是比较冷静和镇定的。当他把被雪弄湿的头发从额头撸到旁边，让火光任意照在苍白的额角和脸颊上时，我从来没有看到过他那漂亮的脸容，像现在这样酷似大理石雕像了。我悲哀地发现这张脸上清晰地刻下了辛劳和忧伤的凹陷痕迹。我等待着，盼着他会说一些我至少能够理解的事，但这会儿他的手托着下巴，手指放在嘴唇上，他在沉思默想。我的印象是，他的手跟他的脸一样消瘦。我心里涌起了—阵也许是不必要的怜悯之情，感动得说话了：“I wish Diana or Mary would come and live with you: it is too bad that you should be quite alone; and you are recklessly rash about your own health.”“但愿黛安娜或玛丽会来跟你住在一起，你那么孤零零一个人，实在太糟糕了，而你对自己的健康又那么草率。”“Not at all,” said he: “I care for myself when necessary.  I am well now.  What do you see amiss in me?”“—点也没有，”他说，“必要时我会照顾自己的，我现在很好，你看见我什么地方不好啦？”This was said with a careless, abstracted indifference, which showed that my solicitude was, at least in his opinion, wholly superfluous.  I was silenced.他说这话的时候心不在焉，神情漠然。表明我的关切，至少在他看来是多余的。我闭上了嘴。He still slowly moved his finger over his upper lip, and still his eye dwelt dreamily on the glowing grate; thinking it urgent to say something, I asked him presently if he felt any cold draught from the door, which was behind him.他依然慢悠悠地把手指移到上嘴唇，依然那么睡眼朦胧地看着闪烁的炉格，像是有什么要紧的事儿要说。我立刻问他是不是感到有一阵冷风从他背后的门吹来。“No, no!” he responded shortly and somewhat testily.没有，没有，”他有些恼火，回答得很简捷，“Well,” I reflected, “if you won’t talk, you may be still; I’ll let you alone now, and return to my book.”“好吧，”我沉思起来，“要是你不愿谈、你可以保持沉默，我就不打扰你了，我看我的书去。”So I snuffed the candle and resumed the perusal of “Marmion.”  He soon stirred; my eye was instantly drawn to his movements; he only took out a morocco pocket-book, thence produced a letter, which he read in silence, folded it, put it back, relapsed into meditation.  It was vain to try to read with such an inscrutable fixture before me; nor could I, in impatience, consent to be dumb; he might rebuff me if he liked, but talk I would.于是我剪了烛芯，继续细读起《玛米昂》来。不久他开始动弹了，我的眼睛立刻被他的动作所吸引。他只不过取出了一个山羊鞣皮面皮夹子，从里面拿出一封信来，默默地看着，又把它折起来，放回原处，再次陷入了沉思。面前站着这么一个不可思议的固定物，想要看书也看不进去。而在这种不耐烦的时刻，我也不愿当哑巴。他要是不高兴，尽可拒绝我，但我要同他交谈。“Have you heard from Diana and Mary lately?”“最近接到过黛安娜和玛丽的信吗？”“Not since the letter I showed you a week ago.”“自从一周前我给你看的那封信后，没有收到过。”“There has not been any change made about your own arrangements?  You will not be summoned to leave England sooner than you expected?”“你自己的安排没有什么更动吧？该不会叫你比你估计更早离开英国吧？”“I fear not, indeed: such chance is too good to befall me.”  Baffled so far, I changed my ground.  I bethought myself to talk about the school and my scholars.“说实在恐怕不会。这样的机会太好了，不会落到我头上。”我至此毫无进展，于是便掉转枪头——决定谈学校和学生了。“Mary Garrett’s mother is better, and Mary came back to the school this morning, and I shall have four new girls next week from the Foundry Close—they would have come to-day but for the snow.”“玛丽．加勒特的母亲好些了，玛丽今天早上到校里来了，下星期我有四个从铸造场来的新同学——要不是这场雪今天该到了。”“Indeed!”“真的？”“Mr. Oliver pays for two.”“奥利弗先生支付其中两个的学费。”“Does he?”“是吗？”“He means to give the whole school a treat at Christmas.”“他打算在圣诞节请全校的客人。”“I know.”“我知道了。”“Was it your suggestion?”“是你的建议吗，”“No.”“不是。”“Whose, then?”“那么是谁的？”“His daughter’s, I think.”“他女儿的，我想。”“It is like her: she is so good-natured.”“是像她建议的，她心地善良。”“Yes.”“是呀。”Again came the blank of a pause: the clock struck eight strokes.  It aroused him; he uncrossed his legs, sat erect, turned to me.谈话停顿了下来，再次出现了空隙。时钟敲了八下。钟声把他惊醒了，他分开交叉的腿，站直了身子，转向我。“Leave your book a moment, and come a little nearer the fire,” he said.“把你的书放—会儿吧，过来靠近点火炉”他说。Wondering, and of my wonder finding no end, I complied.我有些纳闷，而且是无止境地纳闷，于是也就答应了。“Half-an-hour ago,” he pursued, “I spoke of my impatience to hear the sequel of a tale: on reflection, I find the matter will be better managed by my assuming the narrator’s part, and converting you into a listener.  Before commencing, it is but fair to warn you that the story will sound somewhat hackneyed in your ears; but stale details often regain a degree of freshness when they pass through new lips.  For the rest, whether trite or novel, it is short.“半小时之前，”他接着说，“我曾说起急于听一个故事的续篇。后来想了一下，还是让我扮演叙述者的角色，让你转化为听众比较好办。开场之前，我有言在先，这个故事在你的耳朵听来恐怕有些陈腐，但是过时的细节从另一张嘴里吐出来，常常又会获得某种程度的新鲜感。至于别的就不管了，陈腐也好，新鲜也好，反正很短。”“Twenty years ago, a poor curate—never mind his name at this moment—fell in love with a rich man’s daughter; she fell in love with him, and married him, against the advice of all her friends, who consequently disowned her immediately after the wedding.  Before two years passed, the rash pair were both dead, and laid quietly side by side under one slab.  (I have seen their grave; it formed part of the pavement of a huge churchyard surrounding the grim, soot-black old cathedral of an overgrown manufacturing town in ---shire.)  They left a daughter, which, at its very birth, Charity received in her lap—cold as that of the snow-drift I almost stuck fast in to-night.  Charity carried the friendless thing to the house of its rich maternal relations; it was reared by an aunt-in-law, called (I come to names now) Mrs. Reed of Gateshead.  You start—did you hear a noise?  I daresay it is only a rat scrambling along the rafters of the adjoining schoolroom: it was a barn before I had it repaired and altered, and barns are generally haunted by rats.—To proceed.  Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years: whether it was happy or not with her, I cannot say, never having been told; but at the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know—being no other than Lowood School, where you so long resided yourself.  It seems her career there was very honourable: from a pupil, she became a teacher, like yourself—really it strikes me there are parallel points in her history and yours—she left it to be a governess: there, again, your fates were analogous; she undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr. Rochester.”“二十年前，一个穷苦的牧师——这会儿且不去管他叫什么名字——与一个有钱人的女儿相爱。她爱上了他，而且不听她所有朋友的劝告，嫁给了他。结果婚礼一结束他们就同她断绝了关系。两年未到，这一对草率的夫妇双双故去。静静地躺在同一块石板底下（我见过他们的坟墓，它在××郡的一个人口稠密的工业城市，那里有一个煤烟一般黑、面目狰狞的老教堂，四周被一大片墓地包围着，那两人的坟墓已成了墓地人行道的一部份）。他们留下了一个女儿，她一生下来就落入了慈善事业的膝头——那膝头像我今晚陷进去几乎不能自拔的积雪一样冰冷。慈善把这个没有朋友的小东西，送到母亲的一位有钱亲戚那里。被孩子的舅妈，一个叫做（这会儿我要提名字了）盖茨黑德的里德太太收养着。——你吓了一跳——听见什么响动了？我猜想不过是一个老鼠，爬过毗邻着的教室的大梁。这里原先是个谷仓，后来我整修改建了一下，谷仓向来是老鼠出没的地方。说下去吧。里德太太把这个孤儿养了十年，她跟这孩子处得愉快还是不愉快，我说不上，因为从来没听人谈起过。不过十年之后，她把孩子转送到了一个你知道的地方——恰恰就是罗沃德学校，那儿你自己也住了很久。她在那儿的经历似乎很光荣，象你一样，从学生变成了教师——说实在我总觉得你的身世和她的很有相似之处——她离开那里去当家庭教师，在那里，你们的命运又再次靠拢，她担当起教育某个罗切斯特先生的被监护人的职责。”“Mr. Rivers!” I interrupted.“里弗斯先生！”“I can guess your feelings,” he said, “but restrain them for a while: I have nearly finished; hear me to the end.  Of Mr. Rochester’s character I know nothing, but the one fact that he professed to offer honourable marriage to this young girl, and that at the very altar she discovered he had a wife yet alive, though a lunatic.  What his subsequent conduct and proposals were is a matter of pure conjecture; but when an event transpired which rendered inquiry after the governess necessary, it was discovered she was gone—no one could tell when, where, or how.  She had left Thornfield Hall in the night; every research after her course had been vain: the country had been scoured far and wide; no vestige of information could be gathered respecting her.  Yet that she should be found is become a matter of serious urgency: advertisements have been put in all the papers; I myself have received a letter from one Mr. Briggs, a solicitor, communicating the details I have just imparted.  Is it not an odd tale?”“我能猜得出你的情感，”他说，“但是克制一会儿吧，我差不多要结束了。听我把话讲完吧。关于罗切斯特先生的为人，除了一件事情，我一无所知。那就是他宣布要同这位年轻姑娘体面地结成夫妇。就在圣坛上她发觉他有一个妻子，虽然疯了，但还活着。他以后的举动和建议纯粹只能凭想象了。后来有一件事必得问问这位家庭女教师时，才发现她已经走了——谁也不知道什么时候走的，去了什么地方，怎么去的。她是夜间从桑菲尔德出走的。她可能会走的每一条路都去查看过了，但一无所获。这个郡到处都搜索过，但没有得到一丁点她的消急。可是要把她找到已成了刻不容缓的大事，各报都登了广告，连我自己也从一个名叫布里格斯先生的律师那儿收到了一封信，通报了我刚才说的这些细节，难道这不是一个希奇古怪的故事吗？”“Just tell me this,” said I, “and since you know so much, you surely can tell it me—what of Mr. Rochester?  How and where is he?  What is he doing?  Is he well?”“你就是告诉我这点吧，”我说，“既然你知道得那么多，你当然能够告诉我——一罗切斯特先生的情况怎么样？他怎样了？他在哪儿？在干什么？他好吗？”“I am ignorant of all concerning Mr. Rochester: the letter never mentions him but to narrate the fraudulent and illegal attempt I have adverted to.  You should rather ask the name of the governess—the nature of the event which requires her appearance.”“我对罗切斯特先生茫无所知，这封信除了说起我所提及的诈骗和非法的意图，从没有谈到他。你还是该问一问那个家庭女教师的名字。——问问非她不可的那件事本身属于什么性质。”“Did no one go to Thornfield Hall, then?  Did no one see Mr. Rochester?”“那么没有人去过桑菲尔德府吗？难道没有人见过罗切斯特先生？”“I suppose not.”“我想没有。”“But they wrote to him?”“可是他们给他写信过吗？”“Of course.”“那当然。”“And what did he say?  Who has his letters?”“他说什么啦？谁有他的信？”“Mr. Briggs intimates that the answer to his application was not from Mr. Rochester, but from a lady: it is signed ‘Alice Fairfax.’”“布里格斯先生说，他的请求不是由罗切斯特先生，而是由一位女士回复的，上面签着‘艾丽斯•费尔法克斯。’”I felt cold and dismayed: my worst fears then were probably true: he had in all probability left England and rushed in reckless desperation to some former haunt on the Continent.  And what opiate for his severe sufferings—what object for his strong passions—had he sought there?  I dared not answer the question.  Oh, my poor master—once almost my husband—whom I had often called “my dear Edward!”我觉得一时心灰意冷，最怕发生的事很可能已成事实。他完全可能已经离开英国，走投无路之中，轻率地冲到欧洲大陆上以前常去的地方。他在那些地方能为他巨大的痛苔找到什么麻醉剂呢？为他如火的热情找到发泄对象吗？我不敢回答这个问题。呵，我可怜的主人——曾经差一点成为我的丈夫——我经常称他“我亲爱的爱德华！”“He must have been a bad man,” observed Mr. Rivers.“他准是个坏人，”里弗斯先生说。“You don’t know him—don’t pronounce an opinion upon him,” I said, with warmth.“你不了解他——别对他说三道四。”我激动地说。“Very well,” he answered quietly: “and indeed my head is otherwise occupied than with him: I have my tale to finish.  Since you won’t ask the governess’s name, I must tell it of my own accord.  Stay!  I have it here—it is always more satisfactory to see important points written down, fairly committed to black and white.”“行呵，”他平心静气地答道，“其实我心里想的倒不是他。我要结束我的故事。既然你没有问起家庭女教师的名字，那我得自己说了——慢着——我这儿有——看到要紧的事儿，完完全全白纸黑字写下来，往往会更使人满意。”And the pocket-book was again deliberately produced, opened, sought through; from one of its compartments was extracted a shabby slip of paper, hastily torn off: I recognised in its texture and its stains of ultra-marine, and lake, and vermillion, the ravished margin of the portrait-cover.  He got up, held it close to my eyes: and I read, traced in Indian ink, in my own handwriting, the words “Jane Eyre”—the work doubtless of some moment of abstraction.他再次不慌不忙地拿出那个皮夹子，把它打开，仔细翻寻起来，从一个夹层抽出一张原先匆忙撕下的破破烂烂的纸条。我从纸条的质地和蓝一块、青一块、红一块的污渍认出来，这是被他抢去、原先盖在画上那张纸的边沿。他站存来，把纸头凑到我眼面前，我看到了用黑墨水笔写下的“简•爱”两字——无疑那是不经意中留下的笔迹。“Briggs wrote to me of a Jane Eyre:” he said, “the advertisements demanded a Jane Eyre: I knew a Jane Elliott.—I confess I had my suspicions, but it was only yesterday afternoon they were at once resolved into certainty.  You own the name and renounce the alias?”“布里格斯写信给我，问起了一个叫简•爱的人，”他说，“广告上寻找一个叫简•爱的。而我认得的一个人叫简•爱略特——我承认，我产生了怀疑，直到昨天下午，疑团解开，我才有了把握。你承认真名，放弃别名吗？”“Yes—yes; but where is Mr. Briggs?  He perhaps knows more of Mr. Rochester than you do.”“是的——是的——不过布里格斯先生在哪儿？他也许比你更了解罗切斯特先生的情况。”“Briggs is in London.  I should doubt his knowing anything at all about Mr. Rochester; it is not in Mr. Rochester he is interested.  Meantime, you forget essential points in pursuing trifles: you do not inquire why Mr. Briggs sought after you—what he wanted with you.”“布里格斯在伦敦。我怀疑他甚至是否知道罗切斯特先生。他感兴趣的不是罗切斯特先生。同时，你拣了芝麻忘了西瓜，没有问问布里格斯为什么要找到你——他找你干什么。”“Well, what did he want?”“嗯，他需要什么？”“Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr. Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that he has left you all his property, and that you are now rich—merely that—nothing more.”“不过是要告诉你，你的叔父，住在马德拉群岛的爱先生去世了。他已把全部财产留给你，现在你富了——如此而已——没有别的。”“I!—rich?”“我？富了吗？”“Yes, you, rich—quite an heiress.”“不错，你富了——一个十足的女继承人。”Silence succeeded.随之是一阵静默。“You must prove your identity of course,” resumed St. John presently: “a step which will offer no difficulties; you can then enter on immediate possession.  Your fortune is vested in the English funds; Briggs has the will and the necessary documents.”“当然你得证实你的身份，”圣•约翰马上接着说，“这一步不会有什么困难。随后你可以立即获得所有权，你的财产投资在英国公债上，布里格斯掌管着遗嘱和必要的文件。”Here was a new card turned up!  It is a fine thing, reader, to be lifted in a moment from indigence to wealth—a very fine thing; but not a matter one can comprehend, or consequently enjoy, all at once.  And then there are other chances in life far more thrilling and rapture-giving: this is solid, an affair of the actual world, nothing ideal about it: all its associations are solid and sober, and its manifestations are the same.  One does not jump, and spring, and shout hurrah! at hearing one has got a fortune; one begins to consider responsibilities, and to ponder business; on a base of steady satisfaction rise certain grave cares, and we contain ourselves, and brood over our bliss with a solemn brow.这里偏偏又翻出一张新牌来了！读者呀，刹那之间从贫困升迁到富裕，总归是件好事——好是很好，但不是一下子就能理解，或者因此就能欣赏的。此外，生活中还有比这更惊心动魄，更让人销魂的东西。现在这件事很实在，很具体，丝毫没有理想的成份。它所联系着的一切实实在在，朴朴素素，它所体现的也完全一样。你一听到自己得到一笔财产，不会一跃而起，高呼万岁！而是开始考虑自己的责任，谋划正经事儿。称心满意之余倒生出某种重重的心事来了——我们克制自己，皱起眉头为幸福陷入了沉思。Besides, the words Legacy, Bequest, go side by side with the words, Death, Funeral.  My uncle I had heard was dead—my only relative; ever since being made aware of his existence, I had cherished the hope of one day seeing him: now, I never should.  And then this money came only to me: not to me and a rejoicing family, but to my isolated self.  It was a grand boon doubtless; and independence would be glorious—yes, I felt that—that thought swelled my heart.此外，遗产、遗赠这类字眼伴随着死亡、葬礼一类词。我听到我的叔父，我唯一一位亲戚故去了。打从知道他存在的一天起，我便怀着有朝一日要见他的希望，而现在，是永远别想见他了。而且这笔钱只留给我。不是给我和一个高高兴兴的家庭，而是我孤孤单单的本人。当然这笔钱很有用，而且独立自主是件大好事——，是的，我已经感觉到了——那种想法涌上了我心头。“You unbend your forehead at last,” said Mr. Rivers.  “I thought Medusa had looked at you, and that you were turning to stone.  Perhaps now you will ask how much you are worth?”“你终于抬起头来了，”里弗斯先生说，“我以为美杜莎已经瞧过你，而你正变成石头——也许这会儿你会问你的身价有多少？”“How much am I worth?”“我的身价多少？”“Oh, a trifle!  Nothing of course to speak of—twenty thousand pounds, I think they say—but what is that?”“呵，小得可怜！当然不值一提—一我想他们说二万英镑——但那又怎么样？”“Twenty thousand pounds?”“二万英镑！”Here was a new stunner—I had been calculating on four or five thousand.  This news actually took my breath for a moment: Mr. St. John, whom I had never heard laugh before, laughed now.又是一件惊人的事情——我原来估计四、五干。这个消息让我目瞪口呆了好一会儿。我从没有听到过圣•约翰先生的笑声，这时他却大笑起来。“Well,” said he, “if you had committed a murder, and I had told you your crime was discovered, you could scarcely look more aghast.”“嗯，”他说，“就是你杀了人，而我告诉你你的罪行已经被发现了，也不会比你刚才更惊呆了。”“It is a large sum—don’t you think there is a mistake?”“这是一笔很大的款子——你不会弄错了吧？”“No mistake at all.”“一点也没有弄错。”“Perhaps you have read the figures wrong—it may be two thousand!”“也许你把数字看错了——可能是二千？”“It is written in letters, not figures,—twenty thousand.”“它不是用数字，而是用字母写的——二万。”I again felt rather like an individual of but average gastronomical powers sitting down to feast alone at a table spread with provisions for a hundred.  Mr. Rivers rose now and put his cloak on.我再次感觉到颇象一个中等胃口的人，独自坐在可供一百个人吃的盛宴面前。这会儿里弗斯先生站起来，穿上了斗篷。“If it were not such a very wild night,” he said, “I would send Hannah down to keep you company: you look too desperately miserable to be left alone.  But Hannah, poor woman! could not stride the drifts so well as I: her legs are not quite so long: so I must e’en leave you to your sorrows.  Good-night.”“要不是这么个风雪弥漫的夜晚，”他说，“我会叫汉娜来同你作伴。你看上去太可怜了，不能让你一个儿呆着。不过汉娜这位可怜的女人，不像我这样善于走积雪的路，腿又不够长。因此我只好让你独自哀伤了。晚安。”He was lifting the latch: a sudden thought occurred to me.  他提起门栓时，一个念头蓦地闪过我脑际。“Stop one minute!” I cried.“再呆一分钟！”我叫道。“Well?”“怎么？”“It puzzles me to know why Mr. Briggs wrote to you about me; or how he knew you, or could fancy that you, living in such an out-of-the-way place, had the power to aid in my discovery.”“我不明白为什么布里格斯先生会为我的事写信给你，或者他怎么知道你，或者设想你住在这么个偏僻的地方，会有能力帮助他找到我呢。”“Oh!  I am a clergyman,” he said; “and the clergy are often appealed to about odd matters.”  Again the latch rattled.“呵，我是个牧师，”他说，“而奇奇怪怪的事往往求牧师解决。”门栓又一次格格响了起来。“No; that does not satisfy me!” I exclaimed: and indeed there was something in the hasty and unexplanatory reply which, instead of allaying, piqued my curiosity more than ever.“不，那不能使我满意！”我嚷道，其实他那么匆忙而不作解释的回答，不但没有消除我的好奇心，反而更刺激了它。“It is a very strange piece of business,” I added; “I must know more about it.”“这件事非常奇怪，”我补充说，“我得再了解一些。”“Another time.”“改天再谈吧。”，“No; to-night!—to-night!” and as he turned from the door, I placed myself between it and him.  He looked rather embarrassed.“不行，今天晚上！——今天晚上！”他从门边转过身来时，我站到了他与门之间，弄得他有些尴尬。“You certainly shall not go till you have told me all,” I said.“你不统统告诉我就别想走？”我说。“I would rather not just now.”“现在我还是不讲为好。”“You shall!—you must!”“你要讲！——一定得讲：”“I would rather Diana or Mary informed you.”“我情愿让黛安娜和玛丽告诉你。”Of course these objections wrought my eagerness to a climax: gratified it must be, and that without delay; and I told him so.当然，他的反复拒绝把我的焦急之情推向了高潮：我必须得到满足，而且不容拖延。我把这告诉了他。“But I apprised you that I was a hard man,” said he, “difficult to persuade.”“不过我告诉过你，我是个铁石心肠的男人，”他说，“很难说服。”“And I am a hard woman,—impossible to put off.”“而我是个铁石心肠的女人—一无法拖延。”“And then,” he pursued, “I am cold: no fervour infects me.”“那么，”他继续说，“我很冷漠，对任何热情都无动于衷。”“Whereas I am hot, and fire dissolves ice.  The blaze there has thawed all the snow from your cloak; by the same token, it has streamed on to my floor, and made it like a trampled street.  As you hope ever to be forgiven, Mr. Rivers, the high crime and misdemeanour of spoiling a sanded kitchen, tell me what I wish to know.”“而我很热，火要把冰融化。那边的火已经化掉了你斗篷上的所有的雪，由于同样原因，雪水淌到了我地板上，弄得像踩踏过的衔道。里弗斯先生，正因为你希望我宽恕你毁我砂石厨房的弥天大罪和不端行为，那你就把我想知道的告诉我吧。”“Well, then,” he said, “I yield; if not to your earnestness, to your perseverance: as stone is worn by continual dropping.  Besides, you must know some day,—as well now as later.  Your name is Jane Eyre?”“那么好吧，”他说，“我让步了，要不是向你的真诚屈服，就是向你滴水穿石的恒心投降。另外，有一天你还得知道，早知晚知都一样。你的名字是叫简•爱吗？”“Of course: that was all settled before.”“当然，这以前已全解决了。”“You are not, perhaps, aware that I am your namesake?—that I was christened St. John Eyre Rivers?”“你也许没有意识到我跟你同姓？我施洗礼时被命名为圣•约翰•爱•里弗斯？”“No, indeed!  I remember now seeing the letter E. comprised in your initials written in books you have at different times lent me; but I never asked for what name it stood.  But what then?  Surely—”“确实没有！现在可记起来了，我曾在你不同时间借给我的书里，看到你名字开头的几个字母中有一个Ｅ，但我从来没有问过它代表什么。不过那又怎么样？当然——”I stopped: I could not trust myself to entertain, much less to express, the thought that rushed upon me—that embodied itself,—that, in a second, stood out a strong, solid probability.  Circumstances knit themselves, fitted themselves, shot into order: the chain that had been lying hitherto a formless lump of links was drawn out straight,—every ring was perfect, the connection complete.  I knew, by instinct, how the matter stood, before St. John had said another word; but I cannot expect the reader to have the same intuitive perception, so I must repeat his explanation.我打住了。我不能相信自己会产生这样的想法，更说不上加以表达。但是这想法闯入了我脑海——它开始具体化——顷刻之间，变成了确确实实可能的事情。种种情况凑合起来了，各就各位，变成了一个有条有理的整体，一根链条。以前一直是一堆没有形状的链环，现在被一节节拉直了——每一个链都完好无缺，链与链之间的联结也很完整。圣•约翰还没有再开口，我凭直觉就已经知道是怎么回事了。不过我不能期望读者也有同样的直觉，因此我得重复一下他的说明。“My mother’s name was Eyre; she had two brothers; one a clergyman, who married Miss Jane Reed, of Gateshead; the other, John Eyre, Esq., merchant, late of Funchal, Madeira.  Mr. Briggs, being Mr. Eyre’s solicitor, wrote to us last August to inform us of our uncle’s death, and to say that he had left his property to his brother the clergyman’s orphan daughter, overlooking us, in consequence of a quarrel, never forgiven, between him and my father.  He wrote again a few weeks since, to intimate that the heiress was lost, and asking if we knew anything of her.  A name casually written on a slip of paper has enabled me to find her out.  You know the rest.”  Again he was going, but I set my back against the door.“我母亲的名字叫爱，她有两个兄弟，一个是位牧师，他娶了盖茨黑德的简•里德小姐；另一个叫约翰•爱先生，生前在马德拉群岛的沙韦尔经商。布里格斯先生是爱先生的律师，去年八月写信通知我们舅父已经去世，说是已把他的财产留给那个当牧师的兄弟的孤女。由于我父亲同他之间一次永远无法宽恕的争吵，他忽视了我们。几周前，布里格斯又写信来，说是那位女继承人失踪了，问我是否知道她的情况。一个随意写在纸条上的名字使我把她找到了。其余的你都知道了。”他又要走，我将背顶住门。“Do let me speak,” I said; “let me have one moment to draw breath and reflect.”  I paused—he stood before me, hat in hand, looking composed enough.  I resumed—“请务必让我也说一说，”我说，“让我喘口气，好好想一想。”我停住了——他站在我面前，手里拿着帽子，看上去够镇静的。我接着说：“Your mother was my father’s sister?”“你的母亲是我父亲的姐妹？”“Yes.”“是的。”“My aunt, consequently?”“那么是我的姑妈了？”He bowed.他点了点头。“My uncle John was your uncle John?  You, Diana, and Mary are his sister’s children, as I am his brother’s child?”“我的约翰叔父是你的约翰舅舅了？你，黛安娜和玛丽是他姐妹的孩子，而我是他兄弟的孩子了？”“Undeniably.”“没有错。”“You three, then, are my cousins; half our blood on each side flows from the same source?”“你们三位是我的表兄表姐了。我们身上一半的血都流自同一个源泉？”“We are cousins; yes.”“我们是表兄妹，不错。”I surveyed him.  It seemed I had found a brother: one I could be proud of,—one I could love; and two sisters, whose qualities were such, that, when I knew them but as mere strangers, they had inspired me with genuine affection and admiration.  The two girls, on whom, kneeling down on the wet ground, and looking through the low, latticed window of Moor House kitchen, I had gazed with so bitter a mixture of interest and despair, were my near kinswomen; and the young and stately gentleman who had found me almost dying at his threshold was my blood relation.  Glorious discovery to a lonely wretch!  This was wealth indeed!—wealth to the heart!—a mine of pure, genial affections.  This was a blessing, bright, vivid, and exhilarating;—not like the ponderous gift of gold: rich and welcome enough in its way, but sobering from its weight.  I now clapped my hands in sudden joy—my pulse bounded, my veins thrilled.我细细打量着他。我似乎发现了一个哥哥，一个值得我骄傲的人，一个我可以爱的人。还有两个姐姐，她们的品质在即使同我是陌路人的时候，也激起了我的真情和羡慕。那天我跪在湿淋淋的地上，透过沼泽居低矮的格子窗，带着既感兴趣而又绝望的痛苦复杂的心情，凝视着这两位姑娘，原来她们竟是我的近亲。而这位发现我险些死在他门槛边的年轻庄重的绅士，就是我的血肉之亲。对孤苦伶丁的可怜人儿来说，这是个何等重大的发现！其实这就是财富！——心灵的财富！——一个纯洁温暖的感情矿藏。这是一种幸福，光辉灿烂，生气勃勃，令人振奋！——不像沉重的金礼物：其本身值钱而受人欢迎，但它的份量又让人感到压抑。这会儿我突然兴奋得拍起手来一—我的脉搏跳动着，我的血管震颤了。“Oh, I am glad!—I am glad!” I exclaimed.“呵，我真高兴——我真高兴！”我叫道。St. John smiled.  “Did I not say you neglected essential points to pursue trifles?” he asked.  “You were serious when I told you you had got a fortune; and now, for a matter of no moment, you are excited.”圣•约翰笑了笑。“我不是说过你拣了芝麻丢了西瓜吗？”他问。“我告诉你有一笔财产时，你非常严肃，而现在，为了一件不重要的事，你却那么兴奋。”“What can you mean?  It may be of no moment to you; you have sisters and don’t care for a cousin; but I had nobody; and now three relations,—or two, if you don’t choose to be counted,—are born into my world full-grown.  I say again, I am glad!”“你这话究竟什么意思呢？对你可能无足轻重，你己经有妹妹，不在乎一个表妹。但我没有亲人，而这会儿三个亲戚——如果你不愿算在内，那就是两个——降生到我的世界来，已完全长大成人。我再说一遍，我很高兴！”I walked fast through the room: I stopped, half suffocated with the thoughts that rose faster than I could receive, comprehend, settle them:—thoughts of what might, could, would, and should be, and that ere long.  I looked at the blank wall: it seemed a sky thick with ascending stars,—every one lit me to a purpose or delight.  Those who had saved my life, whom, till this hour, I had loved barrenly, I could now benefit.  They were under a yoke,—I could free them: they were scattered,—I could reunite them: the independence, the affluence which was mine, might be theirs too.  Were we not four?  Twenty thousand pounds shared equally would be five thousand each, justice—enough and to spare: justice would be done,—mutual happiness secured.  Now the wealth did not weigh on me: now it was not a mere bequest of coin,—it was a legacy of life, hope, enjoyment.我快步穿过房间，又停了下来，被接二连三涌进脑子，快得我无法接受、理解和梳理的想法，弄得差点喘不过气来——那就是我可以做什么，能够做什么，会做什么和应当做什么，以及要赶快做。我瞧着空空的墙，它仿佛是天空，密布着冉冉升起的星星——每一颗都照耀着我奔向一个目标或者一种欢乐。那些救了我性命的人，直到如今我还毫无表示地爱着，现在我可以报答了。身披枷锁的，我可以使他们获得自由；东分西散的，我可以让他们欢聚一堂。我的独立和富裕也可以变成是他们的，我们不是一共四个吗？二万英镑平分，每人可得五千——不但足够，而且还有余。公平对待，彼此的幸福也就有了保障。此刻财富已不再是我的一种负担，不再只是钱币的遗赠——而是生命、希望和欢乐的遗产了。How I looked while these ideas were taking my spirit by storm, I cannot tell; but I perceived soon that Mr. Rivers had placed a chair behind me, and was gently attempting to make me sit down on it.  He also advised me to be composed; I scorned the insinuation of helplessness and distraction, shook off his hand, and began to walk about again.这些想法突然向我的灵魂袭来时，我的神态加何，我无从知道。但我很快觉察到里弗斯先生已在我背后放了一把椅子，和和气气地要我坐在上面。他还建议我要镇静。我对暗示我束手无策、神经错乱的做法嗤之以鼻，把他的手推开，又开始走动起来，“Write to Diana and Mary to-morrow,” I said, “and tell them to come home directly.  Diana said they would both consider themselves rich with a thousand pounds, so with five thousand they will do very well.”“明天就写信给黛安娜和玛丽，”我说，“叫她们马上回家来，黛安娜说要是有一千英镑，她们俩就会认为自己有钱了，那么有了五千英镑，就很有钱了。”“Tell me where I can get you a glass of water,” said St. John; “you must really make an effort to tranquillise your feelings.”“告诉我哪儿可以给你弄杯水来，”圣•约翰说，“你真的得努力一下，使你的感情平静下来。”“Nonsense! and what sort of an effect will the bequest have on you?  Will it keep you in England, induce you to marry Miss Oliver, and settle down like an ordinary mortal?”“胡说！这笔遗赠对你会有什么影响呢？会使你留在英国，诱使你娶奥利弗小姐，像一个普通人那样安顿下来吗？”“You wander: your head becomes confused.  I have been too abrupt in communicating the news; it has excited you beyond your strength.”“你神经错乱，头脑胡涂了。我把这个消息告诉得太突然，让你兴奋得失去了自制。”“Mr. Rivers! you quite put me out of patience: I am rational enough; it is you who misunderstand, or rather who affect to misunderstand.”“里弗斯先生！你弄得我很有些不耐烦了。我十分清醒。而正是你误解了我的意思，或者不如说假装误解我的意思。”“Perhaps, if you explained yourself a little more fully, I should comprehend better.”“也许要是你解释得再详细一点，我就更明白了。”“Explain!  What is there to explain?  You cannot fail to see that twenty thousand pounds, the sum in question, divided equally between the nephew and three nieces of our uncle, will give five thousand to each?  What I want is, that you should write to your sisters and tell them of the fortune that has accrued to them.”“解释！有什么需要解释？你不会不知道，二万英镑，也就是提到的这笔钱，在一个外甥，三个外甥女和侄女之间平分，各得五千？我所要求的是，你应当写信给你的妹妹们，告诉她们所得的财产。”“To you, you mean.”“你的意思是你所得的财产。”“I have intimated my view of the case: I am incapable of taking any other.  I am not brutally selfish, blindly unjust, or fiendishly ungrateful.  Besides, I am resolved I will have a home and connections.  I like Moor House, and I will live at Moor House; I like Diana and Mary, and I will attach myself for life to Diana and Mary.  It would please and benefit me to have five thousand pounds; it would torment and oppress me to have twenty thousand; which, moreover, could never be mine in justice, though it might in law.  I abandon to you, then, what is absolutely superfluous to me.  Let there be no opposition, and no discussion about it; let us agree amongst each other, and decide the point at once.”“我已经谈了我对这件事的想法，我不可能有别的想法。我不是一个极端自私、盲目不公和完全忘恩负义的人。此外，我决心有一个家，有亲戚。我喜欢沼泽居，想住在沼泽居，我喜欢黛安娜和玛丽，要与她们相依为命。五千英镑对我有用，也使我高兴；二万英镑会折磨我，压抑我。何况尽管在法律上属于我，在道义上不该属于我。那么我就把完全多余的东西留给你们。不要再反对，再讨论了，让我们彼此同意，立刻把它决定下来吧。”“This is acting on first impulses; you must take days to consider such a matter, ere your word can be regarded as valid.”“这种做法是出于一时的冲动，你得花几天考虑这样的事情，你的话才可算数。”“Oh! if all you doubt is my sincerity, I am easy: you see the justice of the case?”“呵，要是你怀疑我的诚意，那很容易，你看这样的处理公平不公平？”“I do see a certain justice; but it is contrary to all custom.  Besides, the entire fortune is your right: my uncle gained it by his own efforts; he was free to leave it to whom he would: he left it to you.  After all, justice permits you to keep it: you may, with a clear conscience, consider it absolutely your own.”“我确实看到了某种公平，但这违背习惯。此外，整笔财产的权利属于你，我舅舅通过自己的努力挣得这份财产，他爱留给谁就可以留给谁。最后他留给了你。公道毕竟允许你留着，你可以心安理得地认为它完全属于你自己。”“With me,” said I, “it is fully as much a matter of feeling as of conscience: I must indulge my feelings; I so seldom have had an opportunity of doing so.  Were you to argue, object, and annoy me for a year, I could not forego the delicious pleasure of which I have caught a glimpse—that of repaying, in part, a mighty obligation, and winning to myself lifelong friends.”“对我来说，”我说，“这既是一个十足的良心问题，也是个情感问题。我得迁就我的情感。我难得有机会这么做。即使你争辩、反对、惹恼我一年，我也不能放弃已经见了一眼的无上欢乐——那就是部份报答大恩大德，为我自己赢得终身的朋友。”“You think so now,” rejoined St. John, “because you do not know what it is to possess, nor consequently to enjoy wealth: you cannot form a notion of the importance twenty thousand pounds would give you; of the place it would enable you to take in society; of the prospects it would open to you: you cannot—”“你现在是这样想的，”圣•约翰回答，“因为你不知道拥有财富或者因此而享受财富是什么滋味；你还不能想象二万英镑会使你怎样变得举足轻重，会使你在社会中获得怎样高的地位，以及会为你开辟怎样广阔的前景。你不能——”“And you,” I interrupted, “cannot at all imagine the craving I have for fraternal and sisterly love.  I never had a home, I never had brothers or sisters; I must and will have them now: you are not reluctant to admit me and own me, are you?”“而你，”我打断了他，“绝对无法想象我多么渴望兄弟姐妹之情。我从来没有家，从来没有兄弟或姐妹。我现在必须，也不一定要有，你不会不愿接受我承认我，是吗？”“Jane, I will be your brother—my sisters will be your sisters—without stipulating for this sacrifice of your just rights.”“简，我会成为你的哥哥——我的妹妹会成为你的姐姐——而不必把牺牲自己的正当权利作为条件。”“Brother?  Yes; at the distance of a thousand leagues!  Sisters?  Yes; slaving amongst strangers!  I, wealthy—gorged with gold I never earned and do not merit!  You, penniless!  Famous equality and fraternisation!  Close union!  Intimate attachment!”“哥哥？不错，相距一千里路之遥！姐姐们？不错，为陌生人当牛做马！我，家财万贯——装满了我从未挣过，也不配有的金子。而你，身无分文！这就是赫赫有名的平等和友爱！多么紧密的团聚：何等亲切的依恋！”“But, Jane, your aspirations after family ties and domestic happiness may be realised otherwise than by the means you contemplate: you may marry.”“可是，简，你渴望的亲属关系和家庭幸福，可以不通过你所设想的方法来实现。你可以嫁人。”“Nonsense, again!  Marry!  I don’t want to marry, and never shall marry.”“又胡说八道啦！嫁人！我不想嫁人，永远不嫁。”“That is saying too much: such hazardous affirmations are a proof of the excitement under which you labour.”“那说得有些过分了，这种鲁莽的断言证实了你鼓动起来的过度兴奋。”“It is not saying too much: I know what I feel, and how averse are my inclinations to the bare thought of marriage.  No one would take me for love; and I will not be regarded in the light of a mere money speculation.  And I do not want a stranger—unsympathising, alien, different from me; I want my kindred: those with whom I have full fellow-feeling.  Say again you will be my brother: when you uttered the words I was satisfied, happy; repeat them, if you can, repeat them sincerely.”“我说得并不过分，我知道自己的心情。结婚这种事儿我连想都不愿去想。没有人会出于爱而娶我，我又不愿意当作金钱买卖来考虑。我不要陌路人——与我没有共同语言，格格不入，截然不同。我需要亲情，那些我对他们怀有充分的同胞之情的人。请再说一遍你愿做我的哥哥。你一说这话，我就很满意很高兴，请你重复一下，要是你能够真诚地重复的话。”“I think I can.  I know I have always loved my own sisters; and I know on what my affection for them is grounded,—respect for their worth and admiration of their talents.  You too have principle and mind: your tastes and habits resemble Diana’s and Mary’s; your presence is always agreeable to me; in your conversation I have already for some time found a salutary solace.  I feel I can easily and naturally make room in my heart for you, as my third and youngest sister.”“我想我能够。我明白我总是爱着我的妹妹们，我也明白我的爱是建立在什么基础上的——对她们价值的尊重，对她们才能的钦佩。你也有原则和思想。你的趣味和习惯同黛安娜与玛丽的相近。有你在场我总感到很愉快。在与你交谈中，我早已发现了一种有益的安慰。我觉得可以自然而轻易地在我心里留出位置给你，把你看作我的第三个和最小一个妹妹。”“Thank you: that contents me for to-night.  Now you had better go; for if you stay longer, you will perhaps irritate me afresh by some mistrustful scruple.”“谢谢你，这使我今晚很满意。现在你还是走吧，因为要是你再呆下去，你也许会用某种不信任的顾虑再惹我生气。”“And the school, Miss Eyre?  It must now be shut up, I suppose?”“那么学校呢，爱小姐？现在我想得关掉了吧。”“No.  I will retain my post of mistress till you get a substitute.”“不，我会一直保留女教师的职位，直到你找接替的人。”He smiled approbation: we shook hands, and he took leave.他满意地笑了笑。我们握了手，他告辞了。I need not narrate in detail the further struggles I had, and arguments I used, to get matters regarding the legacy settled as I wished.  My task was a very hard one; but, as I was absolutely resolved—as my cousins saw at length that my mind was really and immutably fixed on making a just division of the property—as they must in their own hearts have felt the equity of the intention; and must, besides, have been innately conscious that in my place they would have done precisely what I wished to do—they yielded at length so far as to consent to put the affair to arbitration.  The judges chosen were Mr. Oliver and an able lawyer: both coincided in my opinion: I carried my point.  The instruments of transfer were drawn out: St. John, Diana, Mary, and I, each became possessed of a competency.我不必再细述为了按我的意愿解决遗产问题所作的斗争和进行的争辨。我的任务很艰巨，但是因为我下定了决心——我的表兄妹们最后看到，我要公平地平分财产的想法已经真的不可改变地定了下来——还因为他们在内心一定感到这种想法是公平的，此外，也一定本来就意识到他们如处在我的地位，也一样会做我希望做的事——最后他们让步了，同意把事情交付公断。被选中的仲裁人是奥利弗先生和一位能干的律师。两位都与我的意见不谋而合。我实现了自己的主张，转让的文书也已草成：圣•约翰、黛安娜、玛丽和我，各自都拥有一份富裕的收入。CHAPTER XXXIV第三十四章It was near Christmas by the time all was settled: the season of general holiday approached.  I now closed Morton school, taking care that the parting should not be barren on my side.  Good fortune opens the hand as well as the heart wonderfully; and to give somewhat when we have largely received, is but to afford a vent to the unusual ebullition of the sensations.  I had long felt with pleasure that many of my rustic scholars liked me, and when we parted, that consciousness was confirmed: they manifested their affection plainly and strongly.  Deep was my gratification to find I had really a place in their unsophisticated hearts: I promised them that never a week should pass in future that I did not visit them, and give them an hour’s teaching in their school.一切都办妥的时候已临近圣诞节了，普天下人的假日季节就要到来。于是我关闭了莫尔顿学校，并注意自己不空着手告别。交上好运不但使人心境愉快，而且出手也格外大方了。我们把大宗所得分些给别人，是为自己不平常的激动之情提供一个渲泄的机会。我早就愉快地感到，我的很多农村学生都喜欢我。离别时，这种感觉得到了证实。她们的感情很强烈，也很外露。我发现自己确实已在她们纯扑的心灵中占据了一个位置，我深为满意。我答应以后每周都去看她们，在学校中给她们上一小时课。Mr. Rivers came up as, having seen the classes, now numbering sixty girls, file out before me, and locked the door, I stood with the key in my hand, exchanging a few words of special farewell with some half-dozen of my best scholars: as decent, respectable, modest, and well-informed young women as could be found in the ranks of the British peasantry.  And that is saying a great deal; for after all, the British peasantry are the best taught, best mannered, most self-respecting of any in Europe: since those days I have seen paysannes and Bäuerinnen; and the best of them seemed to me ignorant, coarse, and besotted, compared with my Morton girls.里弗斯先生来了——看到现在这些班级的六十个学生，在我前面鱼贯而出，看我锁上了门——这时我手拿钥匙站着，跟五六个最好的学生，特意交换几句告别的话。这些年轻姑娘之正派、可敬、谦逊和有知识，堪与英国农民阶层中的任何人媲美。这话很有份量，因为英国农民同欧洲的任何农民相比较，毕竟是最有教养、最有礼貌、最为自尊的。打从那时以来，我见过一些paysannes和Bauerinnen，比之莫尔顿的姑娘，就是最出色的也显得无知、粗俗和糊涂。“Do you consider you have got your reward for a season of exertion?” asked Mr. Rivers, when they were gone.  “Does not the consciousness of having done some real good in your day and generation give pleasure?”“你认为自己这一时期的努力已经得到报偿了吗？”她们走掉后里弗斯先生问。“你觉得在自己风华正茂的岁月，做些真正的好事是一种愉快吗？”“Doubtless.”“毫无疑问。”“And you have only toiled a few months!  Would not a life devoted to the task of regenerating your race be well spent?”“而你还只辛苦了几个月，如果你的一生致力于提高自己的民族岂不是很值得吗？”“Yes,” I said; “but I could not go on for ever so: I want to enjoy my own faculties as well as to cultivate those of other people.  I must enjoy them now; don’t recall either my mind or body to the school; I am out of it and disposed for full holiday.”“是呀，”我说，“但我不能永远这么干下去。我不但要培养别人的能力，而且也要发挥自己的能力。现在就得发挥。别让我再把身心都投进学校，我已经摆脱，一心只想度假了。”He looked grave.  “What now?  What sudden eagerness is this you evince?  What are you going to do?”他神情很严肃。“怎么啦？你突然显得那么急切，这是什么意思？你打算干什么呢？”“To be active: as active as I can.  And first I must beg you to set Hannah at liberty, and get somebody else to wait on you.”“要活跃起来，要尽我所能活跃起来，首先我得求你让汉娜走，另找别人服侍你。”“Do you want her?”“你要她吗？”“Yes, to go with me to Moor House.  Diana and Mary will be at home in a week, and I want to have everything in order against their arrival.”“是的。让她同我一起去沼泽居。黛安娜和玛丽一周之后就回家，我要把一切都拾掇得整整齐齐，迎接她们到来。”“I understand.  I thought you were for flying off on some excursion.  It is better so: Hannah shall go with you.”“我理解。我还以为你要去远游呢。不过这样也好，汉娜跟你走。”“Tell her to be ready by to-morrow then; and here is the schoolroom key: I will give you the key of my cottage in the morning.”“那么通知她明天以前作好准备。这是教室钥匙。明天早上我会把小屋的钥匙交给你。”He took it.  “You give it up very gleefully,” said he; “I don’t quite understand your light-heartedness, because I cannot tell what employment you propose to yourself as a substitute for the one you are relinquishing.  What aim, what purpose, what ambition in life have you now?”他拿了钥匙。“你高高兴兴地歇手了，”他说，“我并不十分理解你轻松的心情，因为我不知道你放弃这项工作后，要找什么工作来代替。现在你生活中的目标、目的和雄心是什么？”“My first aim will be to clean down (do you comprehend the full force of the expression?)—to clean down Moor House from chamber to cellar; my next to rub it up with bees-wax, oil, and an indefinite number of cloths, till it glitters again; my third, to arrange every chair, table, bed, carpet, with mathematical precision; afterwards I shall go near to ruin you in coals and peat to keep up good fires in every room; and lastly, the two days preceding that on which your sisters are expected will be devoted by Hannah and me to such a beating of eggs, sorting of currants, grating of spices, compounding of Christmas cakes, chopping up of materials for mince-pies, and solemnising of other culinary rites, as words can convey but an inadequate notion of to the uninitiated like you.  My purpose, in short, is to have all things in an absolutely perfect state of readiness for Diana and Mary before next Thursday; and my ambition is to give them a beau-ideal of a welcome when they come.”“我的第一个目标是清理（你理解这个词的全部力量吗？），把沼泽居从房间到地窖清理一遍；第二个目标是用蜂蜡、油和数不清的布头把房子擦得锃亮；第三个目标是按数学的精密度来安排每一件椅子、桌子、床和地毯，再后我要差不多耗尽你的煤和泥炭，把每个房间都生起熊熊的炉火来。最后，你妹妹们预计到达之前的两天，汉娜和我要大打其鸡蛋，细拣葡萄干，研磨调料，做圣诞饼，剁肉馅饼料子，隆重操持其他烹饪习俗。对你这样的门外汉，连语言也难以充分表达这番忙碌。总之，我的目的是下星期四黛安娜和玛丽到家之前，使一切都安排得妥妥贴贴。我的雄心就是她们到时给予最理想的欢迎。”St. John smiled slightly: still he was dissatisfied.圣•约翰微微一笑，仍不满意。“It is all very well for the present,” said he; “but seriously, I trust that when the first flush of vivacity is over, you will look a little higher than domestic endearments and household joys.”“眼下说来这都不错，”他说，“不过认真地说，我相信第一阵快活的冲动过后，你的眼界不会局限于家人的亲热和家庭的欢乐。”“The best things the world has!” I interrupted.“人世间最好的东西，”我打断了他说。“No, Jane, no: this world is not the scene of fruition; do not attempt to make it so: nor of rest; do not turn slothful.”“不，简，这个世界不是享乐的天地，别去想把它变成这样，或者变成休憩的乐园，不要懈怠懒惰。”“I mean, on the contrary, to be busy.”“恰恰相反，我的意思是要大忙一番。”“Jane, I excuse you for the present: two months’ grace I allow you for the full enjoyment of your new position, and for pleasing yourself with this late-found charm of relationship; but then, I hope you will begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton, and sisterly society, and the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence.  I hope your energies will then once more trouble you with their strength.”“简，我暂时谅解你，给你两个月的宽限，充分享受你新职位的乐趣，也为最近找到亲戚而陶醉一番。但以后，我希望你开始把眼光放远些，不要光盯着沼泽居和莫尔顿，盯着姐妹圈子，盯着自己的宁静，盯着文明富裕所带来的肉体享受。我希望到那时你的充沛精力会再次让你不安。”I looked at him with surprise.  “St. John,” I said, “I think you are almost wicked to talk so.  I am disposed to be as content as a queen, and you try to stir me up to restlessness!  To what end?”我惊讶地看着他。“圣•约翰，”我说，“我认为你这样说是近乎恶毒了。我本希望象女皇那样称心如意，而你却要弄得我不得安宁！你安的什么心？”“To the end of turning to profit the talents which God has committed to your keeping; and of which He will surely one day demand a strict account.  Jane, I shall watch you closely and anxiously—I warn you of that.  And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you throw yourself into commonplace home pleasures.  Don’t cling so tenaciously to ties of the flesh; save your constancy and ardour for an adequate cause; forbear to waste them on trite transient objects.  Do you hear, Jane?”“我的用心是要使上帝赋予你的才能发挥作用，有一天他肯定会对此严加盘问的。简，我会密切而焦急地注意你——我提醒你——要竭力抑制你对庸俗的家庭乐趣所过分流露的热情。不要那么苦苦依恋肉体的关系，把你的坚毅和热诚留给一项适当的事业，不要将它浪费在平凡而短暂的事情上。听见了吗，简？”“Yes; just as if you were speaking Greek.  I feel I have adequate cause to be happy, and I will be happy.  Goodbye!”“听见了，就仿佛你在说希腊文。我觉得我有充分理由感到愉快，我一定会愉快的。再见！”Happy at Moor House I was, and hard I worked; and so did Hannah: she was charmed to see how jovial I could be amidst the bustle of a house turned topsy-turvy—how I could brush, and dust, and clean, and cook.  And really, after a day or two of confusion worse confounded, it was delightful by degrees to invoke order from the chaos ourselves had made.  I had previously taken a journey to S--- to purchase some new furniture: my cousins having given me carte blanche to effect what alterations I pleased, and a sum having been set aside for that purpose.  The ordinary sitting-room and bedrooms I left much as they were: for I knew Diana and Mary would derive more pleasure from seeing again the old homely tables, and chairs, and beds, than from the spectacle of the smartest innovations.  Still some novelty was necessary, to give to their return the piquancy with which I wished it to be invested.  Dark handsome new carpets and curtains, an arrangement of some carefully selected antique ornaments in porcelain and bronze, new coverings, and mirrors, and dressing-cases, for the toilet tables, answered the end: they looked fresh without being glaring.  A spare parlour and bedroom I refurnished entirely, with old mahogany and crimson upholstery: I laid canvas on the passage, and carpets on the stairs.  When all was finished, I thought Moor House as complete a model of bright modest snugness within, as it was, at this season, a specimen of wintry waste and desert dreariness without.我在沼泽居很愉快，也干得很起劲，汉娜也一样，她看着我在一片混乱的房子里会忙得乐不可支，看着我会那么扫呀，摔呀，清理呀，烧呀，忙个不停，简直看得入了迷。真的，过了那么一两天最乱的日子后，我们很高兴地从自己所制造的混乱中，逐步恢复了秩序。在此之前我上了Ｓ城，购买了一些新家具，我的表兄表姐们全权委托我，随我高兴对房间的布置作什么改动，并且拿出一笔钱来派这个用处。普通的起居室和寝室我大体保持原样，因为我知道，黛安娜和玛丽又一次看到朴实的桌子、椅子和床，会比看到最时髦的整修更愉快。不过赋予某些新意还是必要的，使她们回家的时候有一种我所希望的生气。添上黑色漂亮的新地毯、新窗帘、几件经过精心挑选的、古色古香的瓷器和铜器摆设，还有新床罩、镜子和化妆台上的化妆盒等等，便达到了这一目的。它们看上去鲜艳而不耀眼。一间空余的客厅和寝室，用旧红木家具和大红套子重新布置了一下。我在过道上铺了帆布，楼梯上铺了地毯。一切都完成以后，我想在这个季节里沼泽居既是室内光亮舒适的典范，又是室外寒冬枯叶、荒芜凄凉的标本。The eventful Thursday at length came.  They were expected about dark, and ere dusk fires were lit upstairs and below; the kitchen was in perfect trim; Hannah and I were dressed, and all was in readiness.不平凡的星期四终于到来了。估计她们约摸天黑时到。黄昏前楼上楼下都生了火，厨房里清清爽爽。汉娜和我都穿戴好了，一切都已收拾停当。St. John arrived first.  I had entreated him to keep quite clear of the house till everything was arranged: and, indeed, the bare idea of the commotion, at once sordid and trivial, going on within its walls sufficed to scare him to estrangement.  He found me in the kitchen, watching the progress of certain cakes for tea, then baking.  Approaching the hearth, he asked, “If I was at last satisfied with housemaid’s work?”  I answered by inviting him to accompany me on a general inspection of the result of my labours.  With some difficulty, I got him to make the tour of the house.  He just looked in at the doors I opened; and when he had wandered upstairs and downstairs, he said I must have gone through a great deal of fatigue and trouble to have effected such considerable changes in so short a time: but not a syllable did he utter indicating pleasure in the improved aspect of his abode.圣•约翰先到。我求他等全都布置好了再进房子。说真的，光想想四壁之内又肮脏又琐碎乱哄哄的样子，足以吓得他躲得远远的。他看见我在厨房里，照管着正在烘烤的茶点用饼，便走近炉子问道，“你是不是终于对女仆的活儿感到满意了？”作为回答，我邀请他陪我全面察看一下我劳动的成果。我好不容易说动他到房子里去走一走，他也不过是往我替他打开的门里瞧了一瞧。他楼上楼下转了一圈后说，准是费了很大一番劳累和麻烦，才能在那么短时间内带来如此可观的变化。但他只字未提住处面貌改变后给他带来了什么愉快。This silence damped me.  I thought perhaps the alterations had disturbed some old associations he valued.  I inquired whether this was the case: no doubt in a somewhat crest-fallen tone.他的沉默很使我扫兴。我想也许这些更动扰乱了他所珍惜的某些往事的联想。我问他是不是这么回事，当然语气有点儿灰心丧气。“Not at all; he had, on the contrary, remarked that I had scrupulously respected every association: he feared, indeed, I must have bestowed more thought on the matter than it was worth.  How many minutes, for instance, had I devoted to studying the arrangement of this very room?—By-the-bye, could I tell him where such a book was?”“一点也没有。相反，我认为你悉心考虑了每种联想。说真的，我担心你在这上面花的心思太多了，不值得。譬如说吧，你花了多少时间来考虑布置这间房间？——随便问一下，你知道某本书在哪儿吗？”I showed him the volume on the shelf: he took it down, and withdrawing to his accustomed window recess, he began to read it.我把书架上的那本书指给他看。他取了下来，像往常一样躲到窗子凹陷处，读了起来。Now, I did not like this, reader.  St. John was a good man; but I began to feel he had spoken truth of himself when he said he was hard and cold.  The humanities and amenities of life had no attraction for him—its peaceful enjoyments no charm.  Literally, he lived only to aspire—after what was good and great, certainly; but still he would never rest, nor approve of others resting round him.  As I looked at his lofty forehead, still and pale as a white stone—at his fine lineaments fixed in study—I comprehended all at once that he would hardly make a good husband: that it would be a trying thing to be his wife.  I understood, as by inspiration, the nature of his love for Miss Oliver; I agreed with him that it was but a love of the senses.  I comprehended how he should despise himself for the feverish influence it exercised over him; how he should wish to stifle and destroy it; how he should mistrust its ever conducting permanently to his happiness or hers.  I saw he was of the material from which nature hews her heroes—Christian and Pagan—her lawgivers, her statesmen, her conquerors: a steadfast bulwark for great interests to rest upon; but, at the fireside, too often a cold cumbrous column, gloomy and out of place.此刻，我不大喜欢这种举动，读者。圣•约翰是个好人，但我开始觉得他说自己冷酷无情时，他说的是真话。人的美德和人生的欢乐对他没有吸引力——平静的享受也不具魅力。他活着纯粹是为了向往——当然是向往优秀伟大的东西。但他永远不会休息，也不赞成周围的人休息。当我瞧着他白石一般苍白平静的高耸额头——瞧着他陷入沉思的漂亮面容时，我立刻明白他很难成为一个好丈夫，做他的妻子是件够折磨人的事。我恍然领悟到他对奥利弗小姐之爱的实质是什么。我同意他的看法，这不过是一种感官的爱。我理解他怎么会因为这种爱给他带来的狂热影响而鄙视自己，怎么会希望抑杀和毁灭它，而不相信爱会永远有助于他或她的幸福。我明白他是一块大自然可以从中雕刻出英雄来的材料——基督教徒和异教徒英雄——法典制定者、政治家、征服者。他是可以寄托巨大利益的坚强堡垒，但是在火炉旁边，却总是一根冰冷笨重的柱子，阴郁沉闷，格格不入。“This parlour is not his sphere,” I reflected: “the Himalayan ridge or Caffre bush, even the plague-cursed Guinea Coast swamp would suit him better.  Well may he eschew the calm of domestic life; it is not his element: there his faculties stagnate—they cannot develop or appear to advantage.  It is in scenes of strife and danger—where courage is proved, and energy exercised, and fortitude tasked—that he will speak and move, the leader and superior.  A merry child would have the advantage of him on this hearth.  He is right to choose a missionary’s career—I see it now.”“这间客厅不是他的天地，”我沉思道：“喜马拉雅山谷或者南非丛林，甚至瘟疫流行的几内亚海岸的沼泽，才是他用武之地。他满可以放弃宁静的家庭生活。家庭不是他活动的环境，在这里他的官能会变得迟钝，难以施展或显露。在充满斗争和危险的环境中——显示勇气，发挥能力，考验韧性的地方，——他才会像一个首领和长官那样说活和行动。而在火炉边，一个快乐的孩子也会比他强。他选择传教士的经历是正确的——现在我明白了”。“They are coming! they are coming!” cried Hannah, throwing open the parlour door.  At the same moment old Carlo barked joyfully.  Out I ran.  It was now dark; but a rumbling of wheels was audible.  Hannah soon had a lantern lit.  The vehicle had stopped at the wicket; the driver opened the door: first one well-known form, then another, stepped out.  In a minute I had my face under their bonnets, in contact first with Mary’s soft cheek, then with Diana’s flowing curls.  They laughed—kissed me—then Hannah: patted Carlo, who was half wild with delight; asked eagerly if all was well; and being assured in the affirmative, hastened into the house.“她们来啦！她们来啦！”汉娜砰地打开客厅门嚷道。与此同时，老卡罗高兴地吠叫起来。我跑了出去，此刻天已经黑了，但听得见嘎嘎的车轮声。汉娜立刻点上了提灯。车子在小门边停了下来，车夫开了门，一位熟悉的身躯走了出来，接着又出来了另一位。刹那之间我的面孔便埋进了她的帽子底下，先是触碰了玛丽柔软的脸，随后是黛安娜飘洒的卷发。她们大笑着——吻了吻我——随后吻了汉娜，拍了拍卡罗，卡罗乐得差点发了疯。她们急着问是否一切都好，得到肯定的回答后，便匆匆进了屋。They were stiff with their long and jolting drive from Whitcross, and chilled with the frosty night air; but their pleasant countenances expanded to the cheerful firelight.  While the driver and Hannah brought in the boxes, they demanded St. John.  At this moment he advanced from the parlour.  They both threw their arms round his neck at once.  He gave each one quiet kiss, said in a low tone a few words of welcome, stood a while to be talked to, and then, intimating that he supposed they would soon rejoin him in the parlour, withdrew there as to a place of refuge.他们被惠特克劳斯到这里的长途颠簸弄得四肢僵硬，被夜间的寒气冻坏了。但是见了令人振奋的火光便绽开了愉快的笑靥。车夫和汉娜忙着把箱子拿进屋的时候，她们问起了圣•约翰。这时圣•约翰从客厅里走了出来。她们俩立刻搂住了他的脖子，他静静地给了各人一个吻，低声地说了几句欢迎的话，站了一会儿让她们同他交谈，随后便说估计她们很快会同他在客厅会面，像躲进避难所一样钻进了客厅。I had lit their candles to go upstairs, but Diana had first to give hospitable orders respecting the driver; this done, both followed me.  They were delighted with the renovation and decorations of their rooms; with the new drapery, and fresh carpets, and rich tinted china vases: they expressed their gratification ungrudgingly.  I had the pleasure of feeling that my arrangements met their wishes exactly, and that what I had done added a vivid charm to their joyous return home.我点了蜡烛好让她们上楼去，但黛安娜得先周到地叮嘱车夫，随后两人在我后面跟着。她们对房间的整修和装饰，对新的帷幔、新的地毯和色泽鲜艳的瓷花瓶都很满意，慷慨地表示了感激。我感到很高兴，我的安排完全符合她们的愿望，我所做的为她们愉快的家园之行增添了生动的魅力。Sweet was that evening.  My cousins, full of exhilaration, were so eloquent in narrative and comment, that their fluency covered St. John’s taciturnity: he was sincerely glad to see his sisters; but in their glow of fervour and flow of joy he could not sympathise.  The event of the day—that is, the return of Diana and Mary—pleased him; but the accompaniments of that event, the glad tumult, the garrulous glee of reception irked him: I saw he wished the calmer morrow was come.  In the very meridian of the night’s enjoyment, about an hour after tea, a rap was heard at the door.  Hannah entered with the intimation that “a poor lad was come, at that unlikely time, to fetch Mr. Rivers to see his mother, who was drawing away.”那是个可爱的夜晚。兴高彩烈的表姐们，又是叙述又是议论，滔滔不绝，她们的畅谈掩盖了圣•约翰的沉默。看到妹妹们，他由衷地感到高兴，但是她们闪烁的热情，流动的喜悦都无法引起他的共鸣。那天的大事——就是黛安娜和玛丽的归来——谈他感到很愉快，但伴随而来快乐的喧哗，喋喋不休、欣喜万分的接待，使他感到厌倦。我明白他希望宁静的第二天快点到来。用完茶点后一个小时，那晚的欢乐到达了极致，这时却响起来了一阵敲门声，汉娜进来报告说，“一个可怜的少年来得真不是时候，要请里弗斯先生去看看她的母亲，她快要死了。”“Where does she live, Hannah?”“她住在哪儿，汉娜？”“Clear up at Whitcross Brow, almost four miles off, and moor and moss all the way.”“一直要到惠特克劳斯坡呢，差不多有四英里路，一路都是沼泽和青苔。”“Tell him I will go.”“告诉他我就去。”“I’m sure, sir, you had better not.  It’s the worst road to travel after dark that can be: there’s no track at all over the bog.  And then it is such a bitter night—the keenest wind you ever felt.  You had better send word, sir, that you will be there in the morning.”“先生，我想你还是别去好。天黑以后走这样的路是最糟糕的，整个沼泽地都没有路，而且又碰上了天气这么恶劣的晚上——风从来没有刮得那么大，你还是传个话，先生，明天上那儿去。”But he was already in the passage, putting on his cloak; and without one objection, one murmur, he departed.  It was then nine o’clock: he did not return till midnight.  Starved and tired enough he was: but he looked happier than when he set out.  He had performed an act of duty; made an exertion; felt his own strength to do and deny, and was on better terms with himself.但他已经在过道上了，披上了斗篷，没有反对，没有怨言，便出发了，那时候已经九点。他到了半夜才回来，尽管四肢冻僵，身子疲乏，却显得比出发时还愉快。他完成了一项职责，作了一次努力，感到自己有克己献身的魄力，自我感觉好了不少。I am afraid the whole of the ensuing week tried his patience.  It was Christmas week: we took to no settled employment, but spent it in a sort of merry domestic dissipation.  The air of the moors, the freedom of home, the dawn of prosperity, acted on Diana and Mary’s spirits like some life-giving elixir: they were gay from morning till noon, and from noon till night.  They could always talk; and their discourse, witty, pithy, original, had such charms for me, that I preferred listening to, and sharing in it, to doing anything else.  St. John did not rebuke our vivacity; but he escaped from it: he was seldom in the house; his parish was large, the population scattered, and he found daily business in visiting the sick and poor in its different districts.我担心接下来的一整周使他很不耐烦。那是圣诞周，我们不干正经事儿，却沉浸在家庭的欢闹之中。荒原的空气，家里的自由自在的气氛，生活富裕的曙光，对黛安娜和玛丽的心灵，犹如起死回生的长生不老药。从上午到下午，从下午到晚上，她们都寻欢作乐。她们总能谈个不休，她们的交谈机智、精辟、富有独创，对我的吸引力很大。我喜欢倾听，喜欢参与，甚过干一切别的事情。圣•约翰对我们的说笑并无非议，但避之不迭。他很少在家，他的教区大，人口分散，访问不同地区的贫苦人家，便成了每天的例行公事。One morning at breakfast, Diana, after looking a little pensive for some minutes, asked him, “If his plans were yet unchanged.”一天早晨吃早饭的时候，黛安娜闷闷不乐了一阵子后问道，“你的计划没有改变吗？”“Unchanged and unchangeable,” was the reply.  And he proceeded to inform us that his departure from England was now definitively fixed for the ensuing year.“没有改变，也不可改变”便是对方的回答。他接着告诉我们，他离开英国的时间确定在明年。“And Rosamond Oliver?” suggested Mary, the words seeming to escape her lips involuntarily: for no sooner had she uttered them, than she made a gesture as if wishing to recall them.  St. John had a book in his hand—it was his unsocial custom to read at meals—he closed it, and looked up.“那么罗莎蒙德•奥利弗呢？”玛丽问。这句话似乎是脱口而出的，因为她说完不久便做了个手势，仿佛要把它收回去。圣•约翰手里捧着一本书——吃饭时看书是他不合群的习惯——他合上书，抬起头来。“Rosamond Oliver,” said he, “is about to be married to Mr. Granby, one of the best connected and most estimable residents in S-, grandson and heir to Sir Frederic Granby: I had the intelligence from her father yesterday.”“罗莎蒙德•奥利弗，”他说“要跟格兰比先生结婚了。他是弗雷德里克•格兰比爵士的孙子和继承人，是Ｓ城家庭背景最好、最受尊敬的居民之一我是昨天从他父亲那儿得到这个消息的。”His sisters looked at each other and at me; we all three looked at him: he was serene as glass.他的妹妹们相互看看，又看了看我。我们三个人都看着他，他像一块玻璃那样安详。“The match must have been got up hastily,” said Diana: “they cannot have known each other long.”“这门婚事准是定得很匆忙，”黛安娜说，“他们彼此不可能认识很久的。”“But two months: they met in October at the county ball at S-.  But where there are no obstacles to a union, as in the present case, where the connection is in every point desirable, delays are unnecessary: they will be married as soon as S--- Place, which Sir Frederic gives up to them, can he refitted for their reception.”“但有两个月了。他们十月份在Ｓ城的一个乡间舞会上见的面。可是，眼下这种情况，从各方面看来这门亲事都是称心合意的，没有什么障碍，也就没的必要拖延了。一等弗雷德里克爵士出让给他们的Ｓ城那个地方整修好，可以接待他们了，他们就结婚。”The first time I found St. John alone after this communication, I felt tempted to inquire if the event distressed him: but he seemed so little to need sympathy, that, so far from venturing to offer him more, I experienced some shame at the recollection of what I had already hazarded.  Besides, I was out of practice in talking to him: his reserve was again frozen over, and my frankness was congealed beneath it.  He had not kept his promise of treating me like his sisters; he continually made little chilling differences between us, which did not at all tend to the development of cordiality: in short, now that I was acknowledged his kinswoman, and lived under the same roof with him, I felt the distance between us to be far greater than when he had known me only as the village schoolmistress.  When I remembered how far I had once been admitted to his confidence, I could hardly comprehend his present frigidity.这次谈话后我第一回见圣•约翰独自呆着的时候，很想问问他，这件事是不是很使他伤心。但他似乎不需要什么同情，因此，我不但没有冒昧地再有所表示，反而想起自己以前的冒失而感到羞愧。此外，我已疏于同他交谈，他的冷漠态度再次结冻，我的坦率便在底下凝固了。他并没有信守诺言，对我以妹妹相待，而是不断地显出那种小小的令人寒心的区别，丝毫没有要慢慢亲热起来的意思。总之，自从我被认作他的亲人，并同住一屋后，我觉得我们间的距离，远比当初我不过是乡村女教师时大得多。当我记起我曾深得他的信任时，我很难理解他现在的冷淡态度。Such being the case, I felt not a little surprised when he raised his head suddenly from the desk over which he was stooping, and said—在这种情况下，他突然从趴着的书桌上抬起头来说话时，我不免有些惊讶了。“You see, Jane, the battle is fought and the victory won.”“你瞧，简，仗己经打过了，而且获得了胜利。”Startled at being thus addressed, I did not immediately reply: after a moment’s hesitation I answered—我被这样的说话方式吓了一跳，没有立即回答。但犹豫了一阵子后，说道：“But are you sure you are not in the position of those conquerors whose triumphs have cost them too dear?  Would not such another ruin you?”“可是你确信自己不是那种为胜利付出了重大代价的征服者吗？如果再来一仗岂不会把你毁掉？”“I think not; and if I were, it does not much signify; I shall never be called upon to contend for such another.  The event of the conflict is decisive: my way is now clear; I thank God for it!”  So saying, he returned to his papers and his silence.“我想不会。要是会，也并没有多大关系。我永远也不会应召去参加另一次这样的争斗了。争斗的结局是决定性的，现在我的道路已经扫清，我为此而感谢上帝！”说完，他回到了自己的文件和沉默中去了。As our mutual happiness (i.e., Diana’s, Mary’s, and mine) settled into a quieter character, and we resumed our usual habits and regular studies, St. John stayed more at home: he sat with us in the same room, sometimes for hours together.  While Mary drew, Diana pursued a course of encyclopædic reading she had (to my awe and amazement) undertaken, and I fagged away at German, he pondered a mystic lore of his own: that of some Eastern tongue, the acquisition of which he thought necessary to his plans.我们彼此间的欢乐（即黛安娜的、玛丽的和我的）渐渐地趋于安静了。我们恢复了平时的习惯和正常的学习，圣•约翰呆在家里的时间更多了，与我们一起坐在同一个房间里，有时一坐几小时。这时候玛丽绘画；黛安娜继续她的《百科全书》阅读课程（使我不胜惊讶和敬畏）；我苦读德文；他则思索着自己神秘的学问，就是某种东方语言，他认为要实现自己的计划很需要把它掌握。Thus engaged, he appeared, sitting in his own recess, quiet and absorbed enough; but that blue eye of his had a habit of leaving the outlandish-looking grammar, and wandering over, and sometimes fixing upon us, his fellow-students, with a curious intensity of observation: if caught, it would be instantly withdrawn; yet ever and anon, it returned searchingly to our table.  I wondered what it meant: I wondered, too, at the punctual satisfaction he never failed to exhibit on an occasion that seemed to me of small moment, namely, my weekly visit to Morton school; and still more was I puzzled when, if the day was unfavourable, if there was snow, or rain, or high wind, and his sisters urged me not to go, he would invariably make light of their solicitude, and encourage me to accomplish the task without regard to the elements.他似乎就这么忙着，坐在自己的角落里，安静而投入。不过他的蓝眼睛惯于离开看上去稀奇古怪的语法，转来转去，有时会出奇地紧盯着我们这些同学，一与别人的目光相通就会立即收敛，但不时又回过来搜索我们的桌子。我感到纳闷，不明白内中的含义。我也觉得奇怪，虽然在我看来每周一次上莫尔顿学校是件小事，但他每次必定要不失时机地表示满意。更使我不解的是，要是某一天天气不好，落雪下雨，或者风很大，她的妹妹们会劝我不要去，而他必定会无视她们的关心，鼓动我不顾恶劣天气去完成使命。“Jane is not such a weakling as you would make her,” he would say: “she can bear a mountain blast, or a shower, or a few flakes of snow, as well as any of us.  Her constitution is both sound and elastic;—better calculated to endure variations of climate than many more robust.”“简可不是那种你们要把她说成的弱者，”他会说，“她会顶着山风，暴雨，或是几片飞雪，比我们准都不差。她体格健康富有适应性——比很多身强力壮的人更能忍受天气的变化。”And when I returned, sometimes a good deal tired, and not a little weather-beaten, I never dared complain, because I saw that to murmur would be to vex him: on all occasions fortitude pleased him; the reverse was a special annoyance.我回到家里，虽然有时风吹雨淋，疲惫不堪，但从不敢抱怨，因为我明白一嘀咕就会惹他生气。无论何时，你坚忍不拔，他会为之高兴，反之，则特别恼火。One afternoon, however, I got leave to stay at home, because I really had a cold.  His sisters were gone to Morton in my stead: I sat reading Schiller; he, deciphering his crabbed Oriental scrolls.  As I exchanged a translation for an exercise, I happened to look his way: there I found myself under the influence of the ever-watchful blue eye.  How long it had been searching me through and through, and over and over, I cannot tell: so keen was it, and yet so cold, I felt for the moment superstitious—as if I were sitting in the room with something uncanny.一天下午，我却告假呆在家里，因为我确实感冒了。他妹妹们代我去了莫尔顿，我坐着读起席勒的作品来。他在破译鸡爪一样的东方涡卷形字体。我换成练习翻译时，碰巧朝他的方向看了下下，发觉自己正处于那双蓝眼睛的监视之下。它彻彻底底，一遍遍地扫视了多久，我无从知道。他的目光锐利而冷漠，刹那之间我有些迷信了——仿佛同某种不可思议的东西坐在一个屋子里。“Jane, what are you doing?”“简，你在干嘛？”“Learning German.”“学习德语。”“I want you to give up German and learn Hindostanee.”“我要你放弃德语，改学印度斯坦语。”“You are not in earnest?”“你不是当真的吧？”“In such earnest that I must have it so: and I will tell you why.”“完全当真，我会告诉你为什么。”He then went on to explain that Hindostanee was the language he was himself at present studying; that, as he advanced, he was apt to forget the commencement; that it would assist him greatly to have a pupil with whom he might again and again go over the elements, and so fix them thoroughly in his mind; that his choice had hovered for some time between me and his sisters; but that he had fixed on me because he saw I could sit at a task the longest of the three.  Would I do him this favour?  I should not, perhaps, have to make the sacrifice long, as it wanted now barely three months to his departure.随后他继续解释说，印度斯坦语是他眼下正在学习的语言，学了后面容易忘记前面。要是有个学生，对他会有很大帮助，他可以向他一遍遍重复那些基本知识，以便牢记在自己的脑子里。究竟选我还是他的妹妹们，他犹豫了好久。但选中了我，因为他看到我比任何一位都能坐得住。我愿意帮他忙吗？也许我不必作太久的牺牲，因为离他远行的日子只有三个月了。St. John was not a man to be lightly refused: you felt that every impression made on him, either for pain or pleasure, was deep-graved and permanent.  I consented.  When Diana and Mary returned, the former found her scholar transferred from her to her brother: she laughed, and both she and Mary agreed that St. John should never have persuaded them to such a step.  He answered quietly—圣•约翰这个人不是轻易就能拒绝的。让你觉得，他的每个想法，不管是痛苦的，还是愉快的，都是刻骨铭心，永不磨灭的。我同意了。黛安娜和玛丽回到家里，前一位发现自己的学生转到了她哥哥那里，便大笑不已。她和玛丽都认为，圣•约翰绝对说服不了她们走这一步。他平静地答道：“I know it.”“我知道。”I found him a very patient, very forbearing, and yet an exacting master: he expected me to do a great deal; and when I fulfilled his expectations, he, in his own way, fully testified his approbation.  By degrees, he acquired a certain influence over me that took away my liberty of mind: his praise and notice were more restraining than his indifference.  I could no longer talk or laugh freely when he was by, because a tiresomely importunate instinct reminded me that vivacity (at least in me) was distasteful to him.  I was so fully aware that only serious moods and occupations were acceptable, that in his presence every effort to sustain or follow any other became vain: I fell under a freezing spell.  When he said “go,” I went; “come,” I came; “do this,” I did it.  But I did not love my servitude: I wished, many a time, he had continued to neglect me.我发现他是位耐心、克制而又很严格的老师。他期望我做得很多，而一旦我满足了他的期望，他又会以自己的方式表示赞许。渐渐地他产生了某种左右我的力量，使我的头脑失去了自由。他的赞扬和注意比他的冷淡更有抑制作用。只要他在，我就再也不能谈笑自如了，因为一种纠缠不休的直觉，提醒我他讨厌轻松活泼（至少表现在我身上时）。我完全意识到只有态度严肃，干着一本正经的事儿才合他的心意，因此凡他在场的时候，就不可能有别的想头了。我觉得自己被置于一种使人结冻的魔力之下。他说“去”，我就去，他说“来”，我就来；他说“干这个”，我就去干。但是我不喜欢受奴役，很多次都希望他像以前那样忽视我。One evening when, at bedtime, his sisters and I stood round him, bidding him good-night, he kissed each of them, as was his custom; and, as was equally his custom, he gave me his hand.  Diana, who chanced to be in a frolicsome humour (she was not painfully controlled by his will; for hers, in another way, was as strong), exclaimed—一天夜里，到了就寝时间，他的妹妹和我都围他而立，同他说声晚安。他照例吻了吻两个妹妹，又照例把手伸给我。黛安娜正好在开玩笑的兴头上（她并没有痛苦地被他的意志控制着，因为从另一个意义上说她的意志力也很强），便大叫道。“St. John! you used to call Jane your third sister, but you don’t treat her as such: you should kiss her too.”“圣•约翰！你过去总把简叫作你的第三个妹妹，不过你并没有这么待她，你应当也吻她。”She pushed me towards him.  I thought Diana very provoking, and felt uncomfortably confused; and while I was thus thinking and feeling, St. John bent his head; his Greek face was brought to a level with mine, his eyes questioned my eyes piercingly—he kissed me.  There are no such things as marble kisses or ice kisses, or I should say my ecclesiastical cousin’s salute belonged to one of these classes; but there may be experiment kisses, and his was an experiment kiss.  When given, he viewed me to learn the result; it was not striking: I am sure I did not blush; perhaps I might have turned a little pale, for I felt as if this kiss were a seal affixed to my fetters.  He never omitted the ceremony afterwards, and the gravity and quiescence with which I underwent it, seemed to invest it for him with a certain charm.她把我推向他。我想黛安娜也是够惹人恼火的，一时心里乱糟糟的很不舒服。我正这么心有所想并有所感时，圣•约翰低下了头，他那希腊式的面孔，同我的摆到了一个平面上，他的眼睛穿心透肺般地探究着我的眼睛——他吻了我。世上没有大理石吻或冰吻一类的东西，不然我应当说，我的牧师表哥的致意，属于这种性质。可是也许有实验性的吻，他的就是这样一种吻。他吻了我后，还打量了我一下，看看有什么结果。结果并不明显，我肯定没有脸红，也许有点儿苍白，因为我觉得这个吻仿佛是贴在镣铐上的封条。从此以后他再也没有忽略这一礼节，每次我都严肃庄重，默默无言地忍受着，在他看来似乎又为这吻增加了魅力。As for me, I daily wished more to please him; but to do so, I felt daily more and more that I must disown half my nature, stifle half my faculties, wrest my tastes from their original bent, force myself to the adoption of pursuits for which I had no natural vocation.  He wanted to train me to an elevation I could never reach; it racked me hourly to aspire to the standard he uplifted.  The thing was as impossible as to mould my irregular features to his correct and classic pattern, to give to my changeable green eyes the sea-blue tint and solemn lustre of his own.至于我，每天都更希望讨他喜欢。但是这么一来，我越来越觉得我必须抛却一半的个性，窒息一半的官能，强行改变原有的情趣，强迫去从事自己缺乏禀性来完成的事业。他要把我提携到我永远无法企及的高度。每时每刻我都为渴求达到他的标准而受着折磨。这是不可能付诸实现的，就像要把我那不规则的面容，塑造成他标准的古典模式，也象要把他的海蓝色泽和庄重的光彩，放进我那不可改变的青色眼睛里。Not his ascendancy alone, however, held me in thrall at present.  Of late it had been easy enough for me to look sad: a cankering evil sat at my heart and drained my happiness at its source—the evil of suspense.然而，使我目前动弹不得的不全是他的支配意识。最近我很容易显出伤心来，一个腐朽的恶魔端坐在我的心坎上，吸干了我幸福的甘泉—一这就是忧心恶魔。Perhaps you think I had forgotten Mr. Rochester, reader, amidst these changes of place and fortune.  Not for a moment.  His idea was still with me, because it was not a vapour sunshine could disperse, nor a sand-traced effigy storms could wash away; it was a name graven on a tablet, fated to last as long as the marble it inscribed.  The craving to know what had become of him followed me everywhere; when I was at Morton, I re-entered my cottage every evening to think of that; and now at Moor House, I sought my bedroom each night to brood over it.读者，你也许以为在地点和命运的变迁中，我已经忘掉了罗切斯特先生。说真的，一刻都没有忘记。我仍旧思念着他，因为这不是阳光就能驱散的雾气，也不是风暴便可吹没的沙造人像。这是刻在碑文上的一个名字，注定要像刻着它的大理石那样长存。无论我走到哪里，我都渴望知道他的情况。在莫尔顿的时候，我每晚一踏进那间小屋便惦记起他来；这会儿在沼泽居，每夜一走进自己的卧室，便因为他而心潮起伏。In the course of my necessary correspondence with Mr. Briggs about the will, I had inquired if he knew anything of Mr. Rochester’s present residence and state of health; but, as St. John had conjectured, he was quite ignorant of all concerning him.  I then wrote to Mrs. Fairfax, entreating information on the subject.  I had calculated with certainty on this step answering my end: I felt sure it would elicit an early answer.  I was astonished when a fortnight passed without reply; but when two months wore away, and day after day the post arrived and brought nothing for me, I fell a prey to the keenest anxiety.为了遗嘱的事我不得不写信给布里格斯先生时，问他是不是知道罗切斯先生目前的地址和健康状况。但就像圣•约翰猜想的那样，他对他的情况一无所知。我随后写信给费尔法克斯太太，求她谈谈有关情况。我原以为这一步肯定能达到我的目的，确信会早早地得到她的回音。二个星期过去了，还是没有收到回信，我万分惊讶。而两个月逝去，日复一日邮件到来，却没有我的信，我便深为忧虑了。I wrote again: there was a chance of my first letter having missed.  Renewed hope followed renewed effort: it shone like the former for some weeks, then, like it, it faded, flickered: not a line, not a word reached me.  When half a year wasted in vain expectancy, my hope died out, and then I felt dark indeed.我再次写了信，因为第一封有可能是丢失的。新的希望伴随着新的努力而来，象上次一样闪了一下光，随后也一样摇曳着淡去了。我没有收到一行字，一句话。在徒劳的企盼中半年已经过去，我的希望幻灭了，随后便觉得真的堕入了黑暗。A fine spring shone round me, which I could not enjoy.  Summer approached; Diana tried to cheer me: she said I looked ill, and wished to accompany me to the sea-side.  This St. John opposed; he said I did not want dissipation, I wanted employment; my present life was too purposeless, I required an aim; and, I suppose, by way of supplying deficiencies, he prolonged still further my lessons in Hindostanee, and grew more urgent in requiring their accomplishment: and I, like a fool, never thought of resisting him—I could not resist him.风和日丽的春天，我无意消受。夏天就要到了，黛安娜竭力要使我振作起来，说是我脸有病容，希望陪我上海边去。圣•约翰表示反对，他说我并不需要散漫，却缺些事儿干干。我眼下的生活太无所用心，需要有个目标。我想大概是为了补缺，他进一步延长了我的印度斯坦语课，并更迫切地要我去完成。我象一个傻瓜，从来没有想到要反抗——我无法反抗他。One day I had come to my studies in lower spirits than usual; the ebb was occasioned by a poignantly felt disappointment.  Hannah had told me in the morning there was a letter for me, and when I went down to take it, almost certain that the long-looked for tidings were vouchsafed me at last, I found only an unimportant note from Mr. Briggs on business.  The bitter check had wrung from me some tears; and now, as I sat poring over the crabbed characters and flourishing tropes of an Indian scribe, my eyes filled again.一天，我开始了我的功课，情绪比往常要低。我的无精打采是一种强烈感受到的失望所引起的。早上汉娜告诉我有我的一封信，我下楼去取的时候，心里几乎十拿九稳，该是久盼的消息终于来了。但我发现不过是一封无关紧要的短简，是布里格斯先生的公务信。我痛苦地克制自己，但眼泪夺眶而出。而我坐着细读印度文字难辨的字母和华丽的比喻时，泪水又涌了上来。St. John called me to his side to read; in attempting to do this my voice failed me: words were lost in sobs.  He and I were the only occupants of the parlour: Diana was practising her music in the drawing-room, Mary was gardening—it was a very fine May day, clear, sunny, and breezy.  My companion expressed no surprise at this emotion, nor did he question me as to its cause; he only said—圣•约翰把我叫到他旁边去读书，但我的嗓子不争气，要读的词语被啜泣淹没了。客厅里只有他和我两人，黛安娜在休憩室练习弹唱，玛丽在整园子——这是个晴朗的五月天，天清气爽，阳光明丽，微风阵阵。我的同伴对我这种情绪并未表示惊奇，也没有问我是什么缘故，他只是说：“We will wait a few minutes, Jane, till you are more composed.”  And while I smothered the paroxysm with all haste, he sat calm and patient, leaning on his desk, and looking like a physician watching with the eye of science an expected and fully understood crisis in a patient’s malady.  Having stifled my sobs, wiped my eyes, and muttered something about not being very well that morning, I resumed my task, and succeeded in completing it.  St. John put away my books and his, locked his desk, and said—“我们停几分钟吧，简，等你镇静下来再说。”我赶紧忍住不再发作，而他镇定而耐心地坐着，靠在书桌上，看上去像个医生，用科学的眼光，观察着病人的险情，这种险情既在意料之中又是再明白不过的。我止住了哽咽，擦去了眼泪，嘟哝着说是早上身体不好，又继续我的功课，并终于完成了，圣•约翰把我的书和他的书放在一边，锁了书桌，说：——“Now, Jane, you shall take a walk; and with me.”“好吧，简，你得去散散步，同我一起去。”“I will call Diana and Mary.”“我来叫黛安娜和玛丽。”“No; I want only one companion this morning, and that must be you.  Put on your things; go out by the kitchen-door: take the road towards the head of Marsh Glen: I will join you in a moment.”“不，今天早上我只要一个人陪伴，一定得是你。穿上衣服，从厨房门出去，顺着通往沼泽谷源头的路走，我马上会赶来的。”I know no medium: I never in my life have known any medium in my dealings with positive, hard characters, antagonistic to my own, between absolute submission and determined revolt.  I have always faithfully observed the one, up to the very moment of bursting, sometimes with volcanic vehemence, into the other; and as neither present circumstances warranted, nor my present mood inclined me to mutiny, I observed careful obedience to St. John’s directions; and in ten minutes I was treading the wild track of the glen, side by side with him.我不知道有折中的办法。在与同我自己的性格相左的那种自信冷酷的个性打交道时，我不知道在绝对屈服和坚决反抗之间，生活中还有什么中间道路。我往往忠实执行一种方法，有时终于到了似火山喷涌，一触即发的地步，接着便转变成执行另一种方法了。既然眼前的情况不能保证我起来反抗，而我此刻的心境又无意反抗，我便审慎地服从了圣•约翰的指令，十分钟后。我与他并肩踩在幽谷的野径上了。The breeze was from the west: it came over the hills, sweet with scents of heath and rush; the sky was of stainless blue; the stream descending the ravine, swelled with past spring rains, poured along plentiful and clear, catching golden gleams from the sun, and sapphire tints from the firmament.  As we advanced and left the track, we trod a soft turf, mossy fine and emerald green, minutely enamelled with a tiny white flower, and spangled with a star-like yellow blossom: the hills, meantime, shut us quite in; for the glen, towards its head, wound to their very core.微风从四面吹来，飘过山峦，带来了欧石南和灯心草的芳香。天空湛蓝湛蓝，小溪因为下过春雨而上涨，溪水流下山谷，充盈清沏，从太阳那儿借得了金光，从天空中吸取了蓝宝石的色泽。我们往前走着离开了小径，踏上了一块细如苔藓、青如绿宝石的柔软草地，草地上精细地点缀着一种白色的小花，并闪耀着一种星星似的黄花。山峦包围着我们，因为溪谷在靠近源头的地方蜿蜒伸到了山峦之中。“Let us rest here,” said St. John, as we reached the first stragglers of a battalion of rocks, guarding a sort of pass, beyond which the beck rushed down a waterfall; and where, still a little farther, the mountain shook off turf and flower, had only heath for raiment and crag for gem—where it exaggerated the wild to the savage, and exchanged the fresh for the frowning—where it guarded the forlorn hope of solitude, and a last refuge for silence.“让我们在这儿歇一下吧，”圣•约翰说，这时我们已来到了一个岩石群的第一批散乱的石头跟前。这个岩石群守卫着隘口，一条小溪从隘口的另一头飞流直下，形成了瀑布。再远一点的地方，山峦抖落了身上的草地和花朵，只剩下欧石南蔽体，岩石作珠宝——在这里山把荒凉夸大成了蛮荒，用愁眉苦脸来代替精神饱满——在这里，山为孤寂守护着无望的希望，为静穆守护着最后的避难所。I took a seat: St. John stood near me.  He looked up the pass and down the hollow; his glance wandered away with the stream, and returned to traverse the unclouded heaven which coloured it: he removed his hat, let the breeze stir his hair and kiss his brow.  He seemed in communion with the genius of the haunt: with his eye he bade farewell to something.我坐了下来，圣•约翰坐在我旁边。他抬头仰望山隘，又低头俯视空谷。他的目光随着溪流飘移，随后又回过来扫过给溪流上了彩的明净的天空。他脱去帽子，让微风吹动头发，吻他的额头。他似乎在与这个他常到之处的守护神在交流，他的眼睛在向某种东西告别。“And I shall see it again,” he said aloud, “in dreams when I sleep by the Ganges: and again in a more remote hour—when another slumber overcomes me—on the shore of a darker stream!”“我会再看到它的，”他大声说，“在梦中，当我睡在恒河旁边的时候。再有，在更遥远的时刻——当我又一次沉沉睡去的时候——在一条更暗淡的小溪的岸边。”Strange words of a strange love!  An austere patriot’s passion for his fatherland!  He sat down; for half-an-hour we never spoke; neither he to me nor I to him: that interval past, he recommenced—离奇的话表达了一种离奇的爱：一个严峻的爱国者对自己祖国的激情！他坐了下来，我们足足有半小时没有说话，他没有开口，我也没有吱声。这段沉默之后，他开始说了：“Jane, I go in six weeks; I have taken my berth in an East Indiaman which sails on the 20th of June.”“简，六周以后我要走了，我已在‘东印度人’号船里订好了舱位，六月二十日开航。”“God will protect you; for you have undertaken His work,” I answered.“上帝一定会保护你，因为你做着他的工作，”我回答。“Yes,” said he, “there is my glory and joy.  I am the servant of an infallible Master.  I am not going out under human guidance, subject to the defective laws and erring control of my feeble fellow-worms: my king, my lawgiver, my captain, is the All-perfect.  It seems strange to me that all round me do not burn to enlist under the same banner,—to join in the same enterprise.”“不错，”他说，“那是我的光荣，也是我的欢乐。我是永不出错的主的一个奴仆。我出门远游不是在凡人的指引之下，不受有缺陷的法规的制约，不受软弱无力的同类可怜虫的错误控制。我的国王，我的立法者，我的首领是尽善尽美的主。我觉得奇怪，我周围的人为什么不热血沸腾，投到同一面旗帜下来——参加同一项事业。”“All have not your powers, and it would be folly for the feeble to wish to march with the strong.”“并不是所有的人都具有你那样的毅力。弱者希望同强者并驾齐驱是愚蠢的。”“I do not speak to the feeble, or think of them: I address only such as are worthy of the work, and competent to accomplish it.”“我说的不是弱者，想到的也不是他们。我只同那些与那工作相配，并能胜任的人说话。”“Those are few in number, and difficult to discover.”“那些人为数不多，而且很难发现。”“You say truly; but when found, it is right to stir them up—to urge and exhort them to the effort—to show them what their gifts are, and why they were given—to speak Heaven’s message in their ear,—to offer them, direct from God, a place in the ranks of His chosen.”“你说得很对，但一经发现，就要把他们鼓动起来——敦促和激励他们去作出努力——告诉他们自己的才能何在，又是怎么被赋予的——向他们耳朵传递上天的信息——直接代表上帝，在选民的队伍中给他们一个位置。”“If they are really qualified for the task, will not their own hearts be the first to inform them of it?”“要是他们确实能胜任那工作，那么他们的心灵岂不第一个得到感应？”I felt as if an awful charm was framing round and gathering over me: I trembled to hear some fatal word spoken which would at once declare and rivet the spell.我仿佛觉得一种可怕的魔力在我周围和头顶积聚起来。我颤栗着，唯恐听到某些会立即召来释放能力的致命的话。“And what does your heart say?” demanded St. John.“那么你的心怎么说呀？”圣•约翰问。“My heart is mute,—my heart is mute,” I answered, struck and thrilled.“我的心没有说——我的心没有说，”我回答，直吓得手骨悚然。“Then I must speak for it,” continued the deep, relentless voice.  “Jane, come with me to India: come as my helpmeet and fellow-labourer.”“那我得替它说了，”他继续说，语调深沉冷酷。“简，跟我一起去印度吧，做个伴侣和同事。”The glen and sky spun round: the hills heaved!  It was as if I had heard a summons from Heaven—as if a visionary messenger, like him of Macedonia, had enounced, “Come over and help us!”  But I was no apostle,—I could not behold the herald,—I could not receive his call.溪谷和天空顿时旋转起来，群山也翻腾起伏：我仿佛听到了上天的召唤——仿佛像马其顿那样的一位幻觉使者已经宣布：“过来帮助我们，”但我不是使徒——我看不见那位使者——我接受不到他的召唤。“Oh, St. John!” I cried, “have some mercy!”“呵，圣•约翰！”我叫道，“怜悯怜悯吧！”I appealed to one who, in the discharge of what he believed his duty, knew neither mercy nor remorse.  He continued—我在向一个自以为在履行职责，不知道怜悯和同情的人请求。他继续说：“God and nature intended you for a missionary’s wife.  It is not personal, but mental endowments they have given you: you are formed for labour, not for love.  A missionary’s wife you must—shall be.  You shall be mine: I claim you—not for my pleasure, but for my Sovereign’s service.”“上帝和大自然要你做一个传教士的妻子，他们给予你的不是肉体上的能力，而是精神上的票赋。你生来是为了操劳，而不是为了爱情。你得做传教士的妻子——一定得做。你将属于我的，我要你——不是为了取乐，而是为了对主的奉献。”“I am not fit for it: I have no vocation,” I said.“我不适合，我没有意志力，”我说。He had calculated on these first objections: he was not irritated by them.  Indeed, as he leaned back against the crag behind him, folded his arms on his chest, and fixed his countenance, I saw he was prepared for a long and trying opposition, and had taken in a stock of patience to last him to its close—resolved, however, that that close should be conquest for him.他估计到一开始我会反对，所以并没有被我的话所激怒。说真的他倚在背后的一块岩石上，双臂抱着放在胸前，脸色镇定沉着。我明白他早己准备好对付长久恼人的反抗，而且蓄足了耐心坚持到底——决心以他对别人的征服而告终。“Humility, Jane,” said he, “is the groundwork of Christian virtues: you say right that you are not fit for the work.  Who is fit for it?  Or who, that ever was truly called, believed himself worthy of the summons?  I, for instance, am but dust and ashes.  With St. Paul, I acknowledge myself the chiefest of sinners; but I do not suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me.  I know my Leader: that He is just as well as mighty; and while He has chosen a feeble instrument to perform a great task, He will, from the boundless stores of His providence, supply the inadequacy of the means to the end.  Think like me, Jane—trust like me.  It is the Rock of Ages I ask you to lean on: do not doubt but it will bear the weight of your human weakness.”“谦卑，简，”他说，“是基督美德的基础。你说得很对，你不适合这一工作。可谁适合呢？或者，那些真正受召唤的人，谁相信自己是配受召唤的呢？以我来说，不过是尘灰草芥而己，跟圣•保尔相比，我承认自己是最大的罪人。但我不允许这种个人的罪恶感使自己畏缩不前。我知道我的领路人。他公正而伟大，在选择一个微弱的工具来成就一项大事业时，他会借助上帝无穷的贮藏，为实现目标而弥补手段上不足。你我一样去想吧，简——像我一样去相信吧。我要你倚靠的是永久的磐石，不要怀疑，它会承受住你人性缺陷的负荷。”“I do not understand a missionary life: I have never studied missionary labours.”“我不了解传教士生活，从来没有研究过传教士的劳动。”“There I, humble as I am, can give you the aid you want: I can set you your task from hour to hour; stand by you always; help you from moment to moment.  This I could do in the beginning: soon (for I know your powers) you would be as strong and apt as myself, and would not require my help.”“听着，尽管我也很卑微，但我可以给予你所需要的帮助，可以把工作一小时一小时布置给你，常常支持你，时时帮助你。开始的时候我可以这么做，不久之后（因为我知道你的能力）你会像我一样强，一样合适，不需要我的帮助。”“But my powers—where are they for this undertaking?  I do not feel them.  Nothing speaks or stirs in me while you talk.  I am sensible of no light kindling—no life quickening—no voice counselling or cheering.  Oh, I wish I could make you see how much my mind is at this moment like a rayless dungeon, with one shrinking fear fettered in its depths—the fear of being persuaded by you to attempt what I cannot accomplish!”“可是我的能力呢，——要承担这一工作，又从何谈起？我感觉不到灯火在燃烧起——感觉不到生命在加剧搏动——感觉不到有个声音在劝戒和鼓励我。呵，但愿我能让你看到，这会儿我的心象一个没有光线的牢房，它的角落里铐着一种畏畏缩缩的忧虑——那就是担心自己被你说服，去做我无法完成的事情。”“I have an answer for you—hear it.  I have watched you ever since we first met: I have made you my study for ten months.  I have proved you in that time by sundry tests: and what have I seen and elicited?  In the village school I found you could perform well, punctually, uprightly, labour uncongenial to your habits and inclinations; I saw you could perform it with capacity and tact: you could win while you controlled.  In the calm with which you learnt you had become suddenly rich, I read a mind clear of the vice of Demas:—lucre had no undue power over you.  In the resolute readiness with which you cut your wealth into four shares, keeping but one to yourself, and relinquishing the three others to the claim of abstract justice, I recognised a soul that revelled in the flame and excitement of sacrifice.  In the tractability with which, at my wish, you forsook a study in which you were interested, and adopted another because it interested me; in the untiring assiduity with which you have since persevered in it—in the unflagging energy and unshaken temper with which you have met its difficulties—I acknowledge the complement of the qualities I seek.  Jane, you are docile, diligent, disinterested, faithful, constant, and courageous; very gentle, and very heroic: cease to mistrust yourself—I can trust you unreservedly.  As a conductress of Indian schools, and a helper amongst Indian women, your assistance will be to me invaluable.”“我给你找到了一个答案——你，听着。自从同你初次接触以后，我就已经在注意你了。我已经研究了你十个月。那时我在你身上做了各种实验，我看到了什么，得出了什么启示呢？在乡村学校里，我发现你按时而诚实地完成了不合你习惯和心意的工作。我看到你能发挥自己的能力和机智去完成它。你能自控时，就能取胜。你知道自己突然发了财时非常镇静，从这里我看到了一个毫无底马罪过的心灵——钱财对你并没有过份的吸引力。你十分坚定地愿把财富分成四份，自己只留一份，把其余的让给了空有公道理由的其他三个人。从这里，我看到了一个为牺牲而狂喜拣起我所感兴趣的东西那种驯服性格中，从你一直坚持的孜孜不倦刻苦勤奋的精神中，从你对待困难那永不衰竭的活力和不可动摇的个性中，我看到了你具备我所寻求的一切品格。简，你温顺、勤奋、无私、忠心、坚定、勇敢。你很文雅而又很英勇。别再不信任你自己了——我可以毫无保留地信任你。你可以掌管印度学校，帮助印度女人，你的协助对我是无价之宝。”My iron shroud contracted round me; persuasion advanced with slow sure step.  Shut my eyes as I would, these last words of his succeeded in making the way, which had seemed blocked up, comparatively clear.  My work, which had appeared so vague, so hopelessly diffuse, condensed itself as he proceeded, and assumed a definite form under his shaping hand.  He waited for an answer.  I demanded a quarter of an hour to think, before I again hazarded a reply.罩在我头上的铁幕紧缩了起来。说服在稳健地步步进逼。我闭上眼睛，最后的几句话终于扫清了原先似乎已堵塞的道路。我所做的工作本来只是那么模模糊糊，零零碎碎，经他一说便显得简明扼要，经他亲手塑造便变得形态毕现了。他等候着回答。我要求他给我一刻钟思考，才能再冒昧地答复他。“Very willingly,” he rejoined; and rising, he strode a little distance up the pass, threw himself down on a swell of heath, and there lay still.“非常愿意，”他回答道。一边站了起来，快步朝隘口走了一小段路，猛地躺倒在一块隆起的欧石南地上，静静地躺着。“I can do what he wants me to do: I am forced to see and acknowledge that,” I meditated,—“that is, if life be spared me.  But I feel mine is not the existence to be long protracted under an Indian sun.  What then?  He does not care for that: when my time came to die, he would resign me, in all serenity and sanctity, to the God who gave me.  The case is very plain before me.  In leaving England, I should leave a loved but empty land—Mr. Rochester is not there; and if he were, what is, what can that ever be to me?  My business is to live without him now: nothing so absurd, so weak as to drag on from day to day, as if I were waiting some impossible change in circumstances, which might reunite me to him.  Of course (as St. John once said) I must seek another interest in life to replace the one lost: is not the occupation he now offers me truly the most glorious man can adopt or God assign?  Is it not, by its noble cares and sublime results, the one best calculated to fill the void left by uptorn affections and demolished hopes?  I believe I must say, Yes—and yet I shudder.  Alas!  If I join St. John, I abandon half myself: if I go to India, I go to premature death.  And how will the interval between leaving England for India, and India for the grave, be filled?  Oh, I know well!  That, too, is very clear to my vision.  By straining to satisfy St. John till my sinews ache, I shall satisfy him—to the finest central point and farthest outward circle of his expectations.  If I do go with him—if I do make the sacrifice he urges, I will make it absolutely: I will throw all on the altar—heart, vitals, the entire victim.  He will never love me; but he shall approve me; I will show him energies he has not yet seen, resources he has never suspected.  Yes, I can work as hard as he can, and with as little grudging.“我不得不看到并承认，我可以做他要我做的事，”我沉思起来，“如果能让我活命的话。但我觉得，在印度的太阳照射下，我活不了太久——那又怎么样呢？他又不在乎。我的死期来临时，他会平静而神圣地把我交付给创造了我的上帝。我面前的情况非常明白。离开英国，就是离开一块亲切而空荡的土地——罗切斯特先生不在这里。而即使他在，同我又有什么关系呢？现在我就是要没有他而活下去。没有比这么日复一日地苟延残喘更荒唐更软弱了，仿佛我在等待不可能发生的情况变化，从而把我和他连结在一起。当然（如圣•约翰曾说过的那样）我得在生活中寻找新的乐趣，来替代己经失去的。而他现在所建议的工作，岂不正是人所能接受，上帝所能赐予的最好的工作？从其高尚的目的和崇高的结果来看，岂不是最适合来填补撕裂的情感和毁灭的希望所留下的空白？我相信我必须说，是的——然而我浑身发抖了。哎呀！要是我跟着他，我就抛弃了我的一半。我去印度就是走向过早的死亡。而离开英国到印度和离开印度到坟墓之间的空隙，又是如何填补呢？我也看得清清楚楚。为了使圣•约翰满意，我会忙个不停，直弄得肌肉酸痛。我会使他满意——做得丝毫不辜负他的希望。要是我真的跟他去了——要是我真的作出他所怂恿的牺牲，那我会做得很彻底。我会把一切心灵和肉体——都扔到圣坛上，作出全部牺牲。他决不会爱我，但他会赞许我的做法。我会向他显示他尚未见过的能力和他从不表示怀疑的才智。不错，我会像他那样奋力工作，像他那样毫无怨言。”“Consent, then, to his demand is possible: but for one item—one dreadful item.  It is—that he asks me to be his wife, and has no more of a husband’s heart for me than that frowning giant of a rock, down which the stream is foaming in yonder gorge.  He prizes me as a soldier would a good weapon; and that is all.  Unmarried to him, this would never grieve me; but can I let him complete his calculations—coolly put into practice his plans—go through the wedding ceremony?  Can I receive from him the bridal ring, endure all the forms of love (which I doubt not he would scrupulously observe) and know that the spirit was quite absent?  Can I bear the consciousness that every endearment he bestows is a sacrifice made on principle?  No: such a martyrdom would be monstrous.  I will never undergo it.  As his sister, I might accompany him—not as his wife: I will tell him so.”“那么有可能同意他的要求了，除了一条，可怕的一条。也就是他要我做他的妻子，而他那颗为丈夫的心，并不比那边峡谷中小溪泛起泡沫流过的阴沉的巨岩强多少。他珍视我就象士兵珍视一个好的武器，仅此而已。不同他结婚，这决不会使我担忧。可是我能使他如愿以偿——冷静地将计划付诸实践——举行婚礼吗？我能从他那儿得到婚戒，受到爱的一切礼遇（我不怀疑他会审慎地做到）而心里却明白完全缺乏心灵的交流？我能忍受他所给予的每份爱是对原则的一次牺牲这种意识吗？不，这样的殉道太可怕了。我决不能承受。我可以作为他的妹妹，而不是他的妻子来陪伴他，我一定要这么告诉他。”I looked towards the knoll: there he lay, still as a prostrate column; his face turned to me: his eye beaming watchful and keen.  He started to his feet and approached me.我朝土墩望去，他躺在那里，一动不动，像根倒地的柱子。他的脸朝着我，眼睛闪着警觉锐利的光芒。他猛地立起向我走来。“I am ready to go to India, if I may go free.”“我准备去印度，要是我可以自由自在地去。”“Your answer requires a commentary,” he said; “it is not clear.”“你的回答需要解释一下，”他说，“不清楚。”“You have hitherto been my adopted brother—I, your adopted sister: let us continue as such: you and I had better not marry.”“你至今一直是我的义兄，而我是你的义妹。让我们这么过下去吧，你我还是不要结婚好。”He shook his head.  “Adopted fraternity will not do in this case.  If you were my real sister it would be different: I should take you, and seek no wife.  But as it is, either our union must be consecrated and sealed by marriage, or it cannot exist: practical obstacles oppose themselves to any other plan.  Do you not see it, Jane?  Consider a moment—your strong sense will guide you.”他摇了摇头。“在这种情况下义兄义妹是行不通的。如果你是我的亲妹妹，那便是另外一回事了，我会带着你，而不另找妻子。而现在的情况是，我们的结合要么非得以婚姻来奉献和保证，要么这种结合就不能存在。现实的障碍不允许有其他打算。你难道没有看到这一点吗，简？考虑一下吧——你的坚强的理智会引导你。”I did consider; and still my sense, such as it was, directed me only to the fact that we did not love each other as man and wife should: and therefore it inferred we ought not to marry.  I said so.  “St. John,” I returned, “I regard you as a brother—you, me as a sister: so let us continue.”我的确考虑了。我的理智虽然平庸，却替我指出了这样的事实：我们并没有象夫妻那么彼此相爱，因而断言我们不应当结婚。于是我这么说。“圣，约翰，”我回答，“我把你当作哥哥——你把我当作妹妹，就让我们这么继续下去吧。”“We cannot—we cannot,” he answered, with short, sharp determination: “it would not do.  You have said you will go with me to India: remember—you have said that.”“我们不能——我们不能，”他毅然决然地回答，“这不行。你已经说过要同我一起去印度。记住——你说过这话。”“Conditionally.”“有条件的。”“Well—well.  To the main point—the departure with me from England, the co-operation with me in my future labours—you do not object.  You have already as good as put your hand to the plough: you are too consistent to withdraw it.  You have but one end to keep in view—how the work you have undertaken can best be done.  Simplify your complicated interests, feelings, thoughts, wishes, aims; merge all considerations in one purpose: that of fulfilling with effect—with power—the mission of your great Master.  To do so, you must have a coadjutor: not a brother—that is a loose tie—but a husband.  I, too, do not want a sister: a sister might any day be taken from me.  I want a wife: the sole helpmeet I can influence efficiently in life, and retain absolutely till death.”“行呵——行呵。在关键的问题上——同我一起离开英国，在未来的工作中同我合作——你没有反对。你已经等于把你的手放在犁轭下了，你说话算数，不会缩回去。你面前只有一个目标——如何把你做的工作出色地做好，把你复杂的兴趣、情感、想法、愿望、目标弄得更单纯一点吧，把一切考虑汇成一个目的：全力以赴，有效地完成伟大的主的使命。要这么做，你得有个帮手——不是一个兄长，那样的关系太松散，而是一个丈夫。我也不需要一个妹妹。妹妹任何时候都可以从我身边带走。我要的是妻子，我生活中能施予有效影响的唯一伴侣，一直维持到死亡。”I shuddered as he spoke: I felt his influence in my marrow—his hold on my limbs.他说话的时候我颤抖着。我感觉到他的影响透入我骨髓——他捆住了我的手脚。“Seek one elsewhere than in me, St. John: seek one fitted to you.”“别在我身上动脑筋了，到别的地方找一个吧，圣•约翰。找一个适合你的。”“One fitted to my purpose, you mean—fitted to my vocation.  Again I tell you it is not the insignificant private individual—the mere man, with the man’s selfish senses—I wish to mate: it is the missionary.”“你的意思是一个适合我目标的——适合我天职的。我再次告诉你，我不是作为微不足道的个人——一个带着自私自利观念的男人，而希望结婚的，却是作为一个传教士。”“And I will give the missionary my energies—it is all he wants—but not myself: that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel.  For them he has no use: I retain them.”“我会把我的精力献给传教士——他所需要的就是这个——而不是我本人。我对于他来说，无非等于是把果壳加到果仁上，而他并不需要果壳一类的东西：我要把它们保留着。”“You cannot—you ought not.  Do you think God will be satisfied with half an oblation?  Will He accept a mutilated sacrifice?  It is the cause of God I advocate: it is under His standard I enlist you.  I cannot accept on His behalf a divided allegiance: it must be entire.”“你不能——也不应该。你想上帝会对半心半意的献身表示满意吗？他会接受部份的牺牲吗？我所拥护的是上帝的事业，我是把你招募到他的旗帜下的。我不能代表上帝接受三心二意的忠诚，非得死心塌地不可。”“Oh!  I will give my heart to God,” I said.  “You do not want it.”“呵！我会把我的心交给上帝，”我说，“你并不需要它。”I will not swear, reader, that there was not something of repressed sarcasm both in the tone in which I uttered this sentence, and in the feeling that accompanied it.  I had silently feared St. John till now, because I had not understood him.  He had held me in awe, because he had held me in doubt.  How much of him was saint, how much mortal, I could not heretofore tell: but revelations were being made in this conference: the analysis of his nature was proceeding before my eyes.  I saw his fallibilities: I comprehended them.  I understood that, sitting there where I did, on the bank of heath, and with that handsome form before me, I sat at the feet of a man, caring as I.  The veil fell from his hardness and despotism.  Having felt in him the presence of these qualities, I felt his imperfection and took courage.  I was with an equal—one with whom I might argue—one whom, if I saw good, I might resist.读者呵，我不能保证我说这句话的语气和伴随着的感情里，有没有一种克制的嘲弄。我向来默默地惧怕圣•约翰，因为我不了解他。他使我感到敬畏，因为总能让我吃不准。他身上有多少属于圣人，有多少属于凡人，我一直难以分辨。但这次谈话却给了我启示，在我眼皮底下展开着对他本性的剖析。我看到了他的错误，并有所理解。我明白，我坐在欧石南岸边那个漂亮的身躯后面时，我是坐在一个同我一样有错的男人跟前。面罩从他冷酷和专横的面孔上落下。我一旦觉得他身上存在着这些品质，便感到他并非完美无缺了，因而也就鼓起了勇气。我与一位同等的人在一起——我可以与他争辩——如果认为妥当，还可以抗拒。He was silent after I had uttered the last sentence, and I presently risked an upward glance at his countenance.我说了最后一句话后，他沉默了。我立刻大胆地抬头去看他的面容。His eye, bent on me, expressed at once stern surprise and keen inquiry.  “Is she sarcastic, and sarcastic to me!” it seemed to say.  “What does this signify?”他的目光对着我，既表示子惊讶，又露出了急切的探询之情。“她可在嘲弄？是嘲弄我吗？”这目光仿佛说。“那是什么意思呢？”“Do not let us forget that this is a solemn matter,” he said ere long; “one of which we may neither think nor talk lightly without sin.  I trust, Jane, you are in earnest when you say you will serve your heart to God: it is all I want.  Once wrench your heart from man, and fix it on your Maker, the advancement of that Maker’s spiritual kingdom on earth will be your chief delight and endeavour; you will be ready to do at once whatever furthers that end.  You will see what impetus would be given to your efforts and mine by our physical and mental union in marriage: the only union that gives a character of permanent conformity to the destinies and designs of human beings; and, passing over all minor caprices—all trivial difficulties and delicacies of feeling—all scruple about the degree, kind, strength or tenderness of mere personal inclination—you will hasten to enter into that union at once.”“别让我们忘记这是一件严肃的事情，”过了一会儿他说。“这是一件我们无论轻率地想，还是轻率地谈都不免有罪的事。简，我相信你说把心交给上帝的时候，你是真诚的。我就只要你这样。一旦你把心从人那儿掏出来，交给了上帝，那么在世上推进上帝的精神王国会成为你的乐趣和事业。凡能推动这一目标的一切，你都准备立即去做。你就会看到我们肉体和精神上的结合，将会对你我的努力有多大的促进！只有这种结合才能给人类的命运和设想以一种永久一致的特性。而且只要你摆脱一切琐细的任性——克服感情上的一切细小障碍和娇气——放弃考虑个人爱好的程度、种类、力量或是柔情——你就会立刻急于要达成这种结合。”“Shall I?” I said briefly; and I looked at his features, beautiful in their harmony, but strangely formidable in their still severity; at his brow, commanding but not open; at his eyes, bright and deep and searching, but never soft; at his tall imposing figure; and fancied myself in idea his wife.  Oh! it would never do!  As his curate, his comrade, all would be right: I would cross oceans with him in that capacity; toil under Eastern suns, in Asian deserts with him in that office; admire and emulate his courage and devotion and vigour; accommodate quietly to his masterhood; smile undisturbed at his ineradicable ambition; discriminate the Christian from the man: profoundly esteem the one, and freely forgive the other.  I should suffer often, no doubt, attached to him only in this capacity: my body would be under rather a stringent yoke, but my heart and mind would be free.  I should still have my unblighted self to turn to: my natural unenslaved feelings with which to communicate in moments of loneliness.  There would be recesses in my mind which would be only mine, to which he never came, and sentiments growing there fresh and sheltered which his austerity could never blight, nor his measured warrior-march trample down: but as his wife—at his side always, and always restrained, and always checked—forced to keep the fire of my nature continually low, to compel it to burn inwardly and never utter a cry, though the imprisoned flame consumed vital after vital—this would be unendurable.“我会吗？”我简短地说。我瞧着他的五官，它们漂亮匀称，但呆板严肃，出奇地可怕；我瞧着他的额头，它威严却并不舒展；我瞧着他的眼睛，它们明亮、深沉、锐利，却从不温柔；我瞧着他那高高的、威严的身子，设想我自己是他的妻子！呵！这绝对不行！作他的副牧师，他的同事，那一切都没有问题。我要以那样的身份同他一起漂洋过海，在东方的日头下劳作；以那样的职责与他同赴亚洲的沙漠，钦佩和仿效他的勇气、忠诚和活力；默默地听任他的控制；自由自在地笑他根深蒂固的雄心；区别基督教徒和一般人，对其中一个深为敬重，对另一个随意宽恕。毫无疑问，仅以这样的身份依附他，我常常会感到痛苦。我的肉体将会置于紧紧的枷琐之中，不过我的心灵和思想却是自由的。我仍然还可以转向没有枯萎的自我，也就是那未受奴役的自然的感情，在孤独的时刻我还可以与这种感情交流。在我的心田里有着一个只属于我的角落，他永远到不了那里，情感在那里发展，新鲜而又隐蔽。他的严酷无法使它枯竭，他那勇士般的整齐步伐，也无法将它踏倒。但是做他的妻子，永远在他身边，永远受到束缚，永远需要克制——不得不将天性之火压得很小，迫使它只在内心燃烧，永远不喊出声来，尽管被禁锢的火焰销蚀了一个又一个器官——这简直难以忍受。“St. John!” I exclaimed, when I had got so far in my meditation.“圣•约翰！”我想得那么远时叫了出来。“Well?” he answered icily.“嗯？”他冷冷地回答。“I repeat I freely consent to go with you as your fellow-missionary, but not as your wife; I cannot marry you and become part of you.”“我重复一遍，我欣然同意作为你的传教士伙伴跟你去，但不作为你的妻子。我不能嫁你，成为你的一部分。”“A part of me you must become,” he answered steadily; “otherwise the whole bargain is void.  How can I, a man not yet thirty, take out with me to India a girl of nineteen, unless she be married to me?  How can we be for ever together—sometimes in solitudes, sometimes amidst savage tribes—and unwed?”“你必须成为我的一部分，”他沉着地回答，“不然整个事儿只是一句空话。除非你跟我结婚，要不我这样一个不到三十岁的男人怎么能带一个十九岁的站娘去印度呢？我们怎么能没有结婚却始终呆在一起呢——有时与外界隔绝，有时与野蛮种族相处？”“Very well,” I said shortly; “under the circumstances, quite as well as if I were either your real sister, or a man and a clergyman like yourself.”“很好，”我唐突地说，“既然这样，那还不如把我当成你的亲妹妹，或者像你一样一个男人，一个牧师。”“It is known that you are not my sister; I cannot introduce you as such: to attempt it would be to fasten injurious suspicions on us both.  And for the rest, though you have a man’s vigorous brain, you have a woman’s heart and—it would not do.”“谁都知道你不是我的妹妹。我不能那样把你介绍给别人，不然会给我们两人招来嫌疑和中伤。至于其他，尽管你有着男子活跃的头脑，却有一颗女人的心——这就不行了。”“It would do,” I affirmed with some disdain, “perfectly well.  I have a woman’s heart, but not where you are concerned; for you I have only a comrade’s constancy; a fellow-soldier’s frankness, fidelity, fraternity, if you like; a neophyte’s respect and submission to his hierophant: nothing more—don’t fear.”“这行”，我有些不屑地肯定说，“完全行。我有一颗女人的心，但这颗心与你说的无关。对你，我只抱着同伴的坚贞，兄弟战士的坦率、忠诚和友情，如果还有别的，那就是新教士对圣师的尊敬和服从。没有别的了——请放心。”“It is what I want,” he said, speaking to himself; “it is just what I want.  And there are obstacles in the way: they must be hewn down.  Jane, you would not repent marrying me—be certain of that; we must be married.  I repeat it: there is no other way; and undoubtedly enough of love would follow upon marriage to render the union right even in your eyes.”“这就是我所需要的，”他自言自语地说，“我正需要这个。道路上障碍重重，必须一一排除。简，跟我结婚你不会后悔的。肯定是这样，我们一定得结婚，我再说一句，没有别的路可走了。毫无疑问，结婚以后，爱情会随之而生，足以使这样的婚姻在你看来也是正确的。”“I scorn your idea of love,” I could not help saying, as I rose up and stood before him, leaning my back against the rock.  “I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer: yes, St. John, and I scorn you when you offer it.”“我瞧不起你的爱情观，”我不由自主地说，一面立起来，背靠岩石站在他面前。“我瞧不起你所献的虚情假意，是的，圣•约翰，你那么做的时候，我就瞧不起你了。”He looked at me fixedly, compressing his well-cut lips while he did so.  Whether he was incensed or surprised, or what, it was not easy to tell: he could command his countenance thoroughly.他眼睛盯着我，一面紧抿着有棱角的嘴唇。他究竟是被激怒了，还是感到吃惊，或是其他等等，很不容易判断。他完全能驾驭自己的面部表情。“I scarcely expected to hear that expression from you,” he said: “I think I have done and uttered nothing to deserve scorn.”我几乎没有料到会从你那儿听到这样的话，”他说，“我认为我并没有做过和说过让你瞧不起的事情。”I was touched by his gentle tone, and overawed by his high, calm mien.我被他温和的语调所打动，也被他傲慢镇定的神态所震慑。“Forgive me the words, St. John; but it is your own fault that I have been roused to speak so unguardedly.  You have introduced a topic on which our natures are at variance—a topic we should never discuss: the very name of love is an apple of discord between us.  If the reality were required, what should we do?  How should we feel?  My dear cousin, abandon your scheme of marriage—forget it.”“原谅我的话吧，圣•约翰。不过这是你自己的过错，把我激得说话毫无顾忌了。你谈起了一个我们两个水火不容的话题——一个我们决不应该讨论的话题。爱情这两个字本身就会挑起我们之间的争端——要是从实际出发，我们该怎么办呢？我们该怎么感觉？我的亲爱的表兄，放弃你那套结婚计划吧——忘掉它。”“No,” said he; “it is a long-cherished scheme, and the only one which can secure my great end: but I shall urge you no further at present.  To-morrow, I leave home for Cambridge: I have many friends there to whom I should wish to say farewell.  I shall be absent a fortnight—take that space of time to consider my offer: and do not forget that if you reject it, it is not me you deny, but God.  Through my means, He opens to you a noble career; as my wife only can you enter upon it.  Refuse to be my wife, and you limit yourself for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity.  Tremble lest in that case you should be numbered with those who have denied the faith, and are worse than infidels!”“不，”他说，“这是一个久经酝酿的计划，而且是唯一能使我实现我伟大目标的计划。不过现在我不想再劝你了。明天我要离家上剑桥去，那里我有很多朋友，我想同他们告别一下。我要外出两周——利用这段时间考虑一下我的建议吧。别忘了，要是你拒绝，你舍弃的不是我，而是上帝。通过我，上帝为你提供了高尚的职业，而只有做我的妻子，你才能从事这项职业。拒绝做我的妻子，你就永远把自己局限在自私闲适、一无所获、默默无闻的小道上。你簌簌发抖，担心自己被归入放弃信仰、比异教徒还糟糕的一类人！”He had done.  Turning from me, he once more他说完从我那儿走开，再次——“Looked to river, looked to hill.”“眺望小溪，眺望山坡。”But this time his feelings were all pent in his heart: I was not worthy to hear them uttered.  As I walked by his side homeward, I read well in his iron silence all he felt towards me: the disappointment of an austere and despotic nature, which has met resistance where it expected submission—the disapprobation of a cool, inflexible judgment, which has detected in another feelings and views in which it has no power to sympathise: in short, as a man, he would have wished to coerce me into obedience: it was only as a sincere Christian he bore so patiently with my perversity, and allowed so long a space for reflection and repentance.但这时候他把自己的感情全都闷在心里。我不配听它渲泄。我跟着他往家走的时候，从他铁板一样的沉默中，我清楚地知道他对我的态度。那是一种严厉、专制的个性，在预料对方能俯首贴耳的情形下，遭到了反抗——对一种冷静和不可改变的裁决表示了非难之后，以及在另一个人身上发现了自己无力打动的情感与观点之后所感到的失望。总之，作为一个男人，他本希望逼迫我就范。而只是因为他是一个虔诚的基督教徒，才这么耐心地忍住了我的执拗，给我那么长时间思考和忏悔。That night, after he had kissed his sisters, he thought proper to forget even to shake hands with me, but left the room in silence.  I—who, though I had no love, had much friendship for him—was hurt by the marked omission: so much hurt that tears started to my eyes.那天晚上，他吻了妹妹们以后，认为忘掉同我握手比较妥当，便默默地离开了房间，我尽管对他没有爱情，却有深厚的友谊，被他这种明显的冷落刺伤了心，我心里难受得连泪水都涌上了眼睛。“I see you and St. John have been quarrelling, Jane,” said Diana, “during your walk on the moor.  But go after him; he is now lingering in the passage expecting you—he will make it up.”“我看得出来，你们在荒原上散步时，你和圣•约翰吵过了，简，”黛安娜说，“可是，跟上他吧，他在过道里走来走去，盼着你呢——他会和好的。”I have not much pride under such circumstances: I would always rather be happy than dignified; and I ran after him—he stood at the foot of the stairs.这种情况下我没有多大的自尊。与其保持尊严，总还不如保持心境愉快，我跟在他后面跑过去——他在楼梯跟前站住了。“Good-night, St. John,” said I.“晚安，圣•约翰，”我说。“Good-night, Jane,” he replied calmly.“晚安，简，”他镇定地回答。“Then shake hands,” I added.“那么握握手吧，”我加了一句。What a cold, loose touch, he impressed on my fingers!  He was deeply displeased by what had occurred that day; cordiality would not warm, nor tears move him.  No happy reconciliation was to be had with him—no cheering smile or generous word: but still the Christian was patient and placid; and when I asked him if he forgave me, he answered that he was not in the habit of cherishing the remembrance of vexation; that he had nothing to forgive, not having been offended.他的手触碰我的手指时是多么冷，多么松弛呀！他对那天发生的事情很不高兴。热诚已无法使他温暖，眼泪也不能打动他了。同他已不可能达成愉快的和解——他没有激励人的笑容，也没有慷慨大度的话语。可是这位基督徒依然耐心而平静。我问他是否原谅我时，他说没有记恨的习惯，也没有什么需要原谅，因为压根儿就没有被冒犯过。And with that answer he left me.  I would much rather he had knocked me down.他那么回答了以后，便离开了我。我宁愿被他打倒在地。CHAPTER XXXV第三十五章He did not leave for Cambridge the next day, as he had said he would.  He deferred his departure a whole week, and during that time he made me feel what severe punishment a good yet stern, a conscientious yet implacable man can inflict on one who has offended him.  Without one overt act of hostility, one upbraiding word, he contrived to impress me momently with the conviction that I was put beyond the pale of his favour.第二天他并没有像他说的那样去剑桥。他把动身的日子推迟了整整一周。在这段时间内，他让我感觉到了一个善良却苛刻、真诚却不宽容的人，能给予得罪了他的人多么严厉的惩罚。他没有公开的敌视行为，没有一句责备的话，却使我能立刻相信，我已得不到他的欢心。Not that St. John harboured a spirit of unchristian vindictiveness—not that he would have injured a hair of my head, if it had been fully in his power to do so.  Both by nature and principle, he was superior to the mean gratification of vengeance: he had forgiven me for saying I scorned him and his love, but he had not forgotten the words; and as long as he and I lived he never would forget them.  I saw by his look, when he turned to me, that they were always written on the air between me and him; whenever I spoke, they sounded in my voice to his ear, and their echo toned every answer he gave me.不是说圣•约翰怀着跟基督教不相容的报复心——也不是说要是他有这份能耐，就会伤着我一根头发怎么的。以本性和原则而言，他超越了满足于卑鄙的报复。他原谅我说了蔑视他和他的爱情的话，但他并没有忘记这些话本身。只要他和我还活着，他就永远不会忘掉。我从他转向我时的神态中看到，这些话总是写在我与他之间的空气中，无论什么时候我一开口，在他听来，我的嗓音里总有着这些话的味道，他给我的每个回答也回响着这些话的余音。He did not abstain from conversing with me: he even called me as usual each morning to join him at his desk; and I fear the corrupt man within him had a pleasure unimparted to, and unshared by, the pure Christian, in evincing with what skill he could, while acting and speaking apparently just as usual, extract from every deed and every phrase the spirit of interest and approval which had formerly communicated a certain austere charm to his language and manner.  To me, he was in reality become no longer flesh, but marble; his eye was a cold, bright, blue gem; his tongue a speaking instrument—nothing more.他并没有避免同我交谈，他甚至还像往常那样每天早晨把我叫到他书桌旁。我担心他心中的堕落者有一种秘而不宜，也不为纯洁的基督徒所欣赏的乐趣，表明他能多么巧妙地在一如既往的言论举动中，从每个行动和每句话里，抽掉某种曾使他的言语和风度产生严肃魅力的关心和赞许心情。对我来说，他实际上已不再是有血有肉的活体，而是一块大理石。他的眼睛是一块又冷又亮的蓝宝石，他的舌头是说话的工具——如此而已。All this was torture to me—refined, lingering torture.  It kept up a slow fire of indignation and a trembling trouble of grief, which harassed and crushed me altogether.  I felt how—if I were his wife, this good man, pure as the deep sunless source, could soon kill me, without drawing from my veins a single drop of blood, or receiving on his own crystal conscience the faintest stain of crime.  Especially I felt this when I made any attempt to propitiate him.  No ruth met my ruth.  He experienced no suffering from estrangement—no yearning after reconciliation; and though, more than once, my fast falling tears blistered the page over which we both bent, they produced no more effect on him than if his heart had been really a matter of stone or metal.  To his sisters, meantime, he was somewhat kinder than usual: as if afraid that mere coldness would not sufficiently convince me how completely I was banished and banned, he added the force of contrast; and this I am sure he did not by force, but on principle.这一切对我是一种折磨——细细的慢悠悠的折磨。它不断激起微弱的怒火和令人颤抖的烦恼，弄得我心烦意乱，神衰力竭。假如我是他的妻子，我觉得这位纯洁如没有阳光的深渊的好人，不必从我的血管里抽取一滴血，也不会在清白的良心上留下一丝罪恶的痕迹，就能很快杀死我。我想抚慰他时尤其感到这点，我的同情得不到呼应。他并不因为疏远而感到痛苦——他没有和解的愿望。尽管我一串串落下的眼泪在我们一起埋头阅读的书页上泛起了水泡，他丝毫不为所动，就仿佛他的心确实是一块石头或金属。与此同时，他对妹妹们似乎比平常更好些了，唯恐单单冷淡还不足以使我相信，我已那么彻底被逐出教门，他又加上了反差的力量。我确信他这么做不是因为恶意，而是出于对原则的维护。The night before he left home, happening to see him walking in the garden about sunset, and remembering, as I looked at him, that this man, alienated as he now was, had once saved my life, and that we were near relations, I was moved to make a last attempt to regain his friendship.  I went out and approached him as he stood leaning over the little gate; I spoke to the point at once.他离家前夕，我偶然见他日落时在园子里散步。瞧着他的身影，我想起这个眼下虽然与我有些隔膜的人，曾经救过我的性命，又是我的近亲，心里便感动得打算作最后一次努力，来恢复友谊。我出了门，向他走去，他倚着小门站着，我立刻开门见山地说：“St. John, I am unhappy because you are still angry with me.  Let us be friends.”“圣•约翰，我不大高兴，因为你还在生我的气，让我们成为朋友吧。”“I hope we are friends,” was the unmoved reply; while he still watched the rising of the moon, which he had been contemplating as I approached.“但愿我们是朋友，”他一面无动于衷地回答，一面仍然仰望着冉冉上升的月亮，我走近他时他就早已那么凝视着了。“No, St. John, we are not friends as we were.  You know that.”“不，圣•约翰。我们并不像过去那样是朋友了。这你知道。”“Are we not?  That is wrong.  For my part, I wish you no ill and all good.”“难道我们不是吗？这话可错了。就我来说，我并没希望你倒霉，而是愿你一切都好。”“I believe you, St. John; for I am sure you are incapable of wishing any one ill; but, as I am your kinswoman, I should desire somewhat more of affection than that sort of general philanthropy you extend to mere strangers.”“我相信你，圣•约翰，因为我深信你不会希望别人倒霉，不过既然我是你的亲戚，我就希望多得到一分爱，超过你施予一般陌路人的博爱。”“Of course,” he said.  “Your wish is reasonable, and I am far from regarding you as a stranger.”“当然，”他说，“你的愿望是合理的，我决没有把你当作陌路人。”This, spoken in a cool, tranquil tone, was mortifying and baffling enough.  Had I attended to the suggestions of pride and ire, I should immediately have left him; but something worked within me more strongly than those feelings could.  I deeply venerated my cousin’s talent and principle.  His friendship was of value to me: to lose it tried me severely.  I would not so soon relinquish the attempt to reconquer it.这话说得沉着镇静，但也是够折磨人令人丧气的。要是我迁就自尊和恼怒的苗头，我会立刻走掉。但是我内心有某种比那些感情更强烈的东西在活动。我十分敬佩我表兄的才能和为人，他的友谊对我来说很宝贵，失掉它会使我心里非常难受。我不会那么很快就放弃重新征服的念头。“Must we part in this way, St. John?  And when you go to India, will you leave me so, without a kinder word than you have yet spoken?”“难道我们就得这样分别了吗？圣•约翰？你就这么离开我去印度，不说一句更好听的话吗？”He now turned quite from the moon and faced me.他这会儿已完全不看月亮，把面孔转向了我。“When I go to India, Jane, will I leave you!  What! do you not go to India?”“我去印度就是离开你吗，简？什么！你不去印度？”“You said I could not unless I married you.”“你说我不能去，除非嫁给你。”“And you will not marry me!  You adhere to that resolution?”“你将不同我结婚！你坚持这个决定？”Reader, do you know, as I do, what terror those cold people can put into the ice of their questions?  How much of the fall of the avalanche is in their anger? of the breaking up of the frozen sea in their displeasure?读者呀，你可像我一样知道，这些冷酷的人能赋予他们冰一般的问题什么样的恐怖吗？知道他们一动怒多么像雪崩吗？一不高兴多么像冰海暴裂吗？“No.  St. John, I will not marry you.  I adhere to my resolution.”“不，圣，约翰，我不嫁你，并坚持自己的决定。”The avalanche had shaken and slid a little forward, but it did not yet crash down.崩裂的冰雪抖动着往前滑了一下，但还没有塌下来。“Once more, why this refusal?” he asked.“再说一遍，为什么拒绝？”他问。“Formerly,” I answered, “because you did not love me; now, I reply, because you almost hate me.  If I were to marry you, you would kill me.  You are killing me now.”“以前我回答过了，因为你不爱我。现在我回答。因为你差不多恨我。要是我跟你结婚，你会要我的命，现在就要我的命了。”His lips and cheeks turned white—quite white.他的嘴唇和脸硕顿时刷白——很白很白。“I should kill you—I am killing you?  Your words are such as ought not to be used: violent, unfeminine, and untrue.  They betray an unfortunate state of mind: they merit severe reproof: they would seem inexcusable, but that it is the duty of man to forgive his fellow even until seventy-and-seven times.”“我会要你的命——我现在就在要你的命？你这些话很凶也不真实，不象女人说的。你根本就不应该这么说。这些话暴露了心灵的一种不幸状态，应当严受责备，而且是不可宽恕的。但是人的职责是宽恕他的同胞，即使是宽恕他七十七次。”I had finished the business now.  While earnestly wishing to erase from his mind the trace of my former offence, I had stamped on that tenacious surface another and far deeper impression, I had burnt it in.这下可完蛋了。我原是希望从他的脑海里抹去以前的伤痕，却不料在它坚韧的表面上打上了更深的印记，我已经把它烙到里面去了。“Now you will indeed hate me,” I said.  “It is useless to attempt to conciliate you: I see I have made an eternal enemy of you.”“现在你真的恨我了，”我说，“再要同你和解也没有用了。我知道我已把你变成了永久的敌人。”A fresh wrong did these words inflict: the worse, because they touched on the truth.  That bloodless lip quivered to a temporary spasm.  I knew the steely ire I had whetted.  I was heart-wrung.这些话好似雪上加霜，因为触及事实而更加伤人。没有血色的嘴唇抖动着一下子抽搐起来。我知道我己煽起了钢刀一般的愤怒。我心里痛苦不堪。“You utterly misinterpret my words,” I said, at once seizing his hand: “I have no intention to grieve or pain you—indeed, I have not.”“你完全误解了我的话，”我立刻抓住他的手说，“我无意让你难受或痛苦——真的，我没有这个意思。”Most bitterly he smiled—most decidedly he withdrew his hand from mine.  “And now you recall your promise, and will not go to India at all, I presume?” said he, after a considerable pause.他苦笑着——非常坚决地把手抽了回去。“我想，现在你收回你的允诺，根本不去印度了，是吗？”一阵相当长的静默之后他说。“Yes, I will, as your assistant,” I answered.“不，我要去的，当你的助手，”我回答。A very long silence succeeded.  What struggle there was in him between Nature and Grace in this interval, I cannot tell: only singular gleams scintillated in his eyes, and strange shadows passed over his face.  He spoke at last.接着是一阵很长的沉默。在这间隙，天性与情理之间究竟如何搏斗着，我说不上来，他的眼睛闪着奇异的光芒，奇怪的阴影掠过他的面孔。他终于开口了。“I before proved to you the absurdity of a single woman of your age proposing to accompany abroad a single man of mine.  I proved it to you in such terms as, I should have thought, would have prevented your ever again alluding to the plan.  That you have done so, I regret—for your sake.”“我以前曾向你证明，像你这般年纪的单身女人，陪伴像我这样的男人是荒唐的。我已把话说到这样的地步，我想你不会再提起这个打算了。很遗憾你居然还是提了——为你感到遗憾。”I interrupted him.  Anything like a tangible reproach gave me courage at once.  “Keep to common sense, St. John: you are verging on nonsense.  You pretend to be shocked by what I have said.  You are not really shocked: for, with your superior mind, you cannot be either so dull or so conceited as to misunderstand my meaning.  I say again, I will be your curate, if you like, but never your wife.”我打断了他。类似这种具体的责备反而立刻给了我勇气。“你要通情理，圣•约翰！你近乎胡言乱语了。你假装对我所说的感到震惊，其实你并没有，因为像你这样出色的脑袋，不可能那么迟钝，或者自负，以致于误解我的意思。我再说一次，要是你高兴，我可以当你的副牧师，而不是你妻子。”Again he turned lividly pale; but, as before, controlled his passion perfectly.  He answered emphatically but calmly—他再次脸色刷白，但像以前一样还是完全控制住了自己的感情。他的回答很有力却也很镇静：“A female curate, who is not my wife, would never suit me.  With me, then, it seems, you cannot go: but if you are sincere in your offer, I will, while in town, speak to a married missionary, whose wife needs a coadjutor.  Your own fortune will make you independent of the Society’s aid; and thus you may still be spared the dishonour of breaking your promise and deserting the band you engaged to join.”“一个不做我妻子的女副牧师，对我绝不合适。那么看来，你是不能同我去了。但要是你的建议很诚心，那我去镇上的时候可以同一个已婚的教士说说，他的妻子需要一个助手。你有自己的财产，不必依赖教会的赞助，这样，你就不会因为失信和毁约而感到耻辱。”Now I never had, as the reader knows, either given any formal promise or entered into any engagement; and this language was all much too hard and much too despotic for the occasion.  I replied—读者们明白，我从来没有作过一本正经的许诺，也没有跟谁订下过约定。在这种场合，他的话说得太狠，太专横了。我回答：“There is no dishonour, no breach of promise, no desertion in the case.  I am not under the slightest obligation to go to India, especially with strangers.  With you I would have ventured much, because I admire, confide in, and, as a sister, I love you; but I am convinced that, go when and with whom I would, I should not live long in that climate.”“在这件事情上，并无耻辱可言，也不存在着失信和毁约。我丝毫没有去印度的义务，尤其是同陌生人。同你，我愿意冒很大的险，因为我佩服你，信任你。作为一个妹妹，我爱你。但我相信，不管什么时候去，跟谁去，在那种气候条件下我活不长久。”“Ah! you are afraid of yourself,” he said, curling his lip.“呵，你怕你自己，”他噘起嘴唇说。“I am.  God did not give me my life to throw away; and to do as you wish me would, I begin to think, be almost equivalent to committing suicide.  Moreover, before I definitively resolve on quitting England, I will know for certain whether I cannot be of greater use by remaining in it than by leaving it.”“我是害怕。上帝给了我生命不是让我虚掷的，而按你的意愿去做，我想无异于自杀。况且，我在决心离开英国之前，还要确实弄明白，留在这儿是不是比离开更有价值。”“What do you mean?”“你这是什么意思？”“It would be fruitless to attempt to explain; but there is a point on which I have long endured painful doubt, and I can go nowhere till by some means that doubt is removed.”“解释也是徒劳的，在这一点上我长期忍受着痛苦的疑虑，不通过某种办法来解除疑团，我什么地方也不能去。”“I know where your heart turns and to what it clings.  The interest you cherish is lawless and unconsecrated.  Long since you ought to have crushed it: now you should blush to allude to it.  You think of Mr. Rochester?”“我知道你的心向着哪里，依恋着什么。你所怀的兴趣是非法的，不神圣的。你早该将它抛弃了。这会儿你应当为提起它来而感到害臊。你是不是想着罗切斯特先生？”It was true.  I confessed it by silence.确实如此，我默认了。“Are you going to seek Mr. Rochester?”“你要去找罗切斯特先生吗？”“I must find out what is become of him.”“我得弄清楚他怎么样了。”“It remains for me, then,” he said, “to remember you in my prayers, and to entreat God for you, in all earnestness, that you may not indeed become a castaway.  I had thought I recognised in you one of the chosen.  But God sees not as man sees: His will be done—”“那么，”他说，“就让我在祷告中记住你，真诚地祈求上帝不让你真的成为弃儿。我想我已认为你是主的选民了。不过上帝的眼光跟人的不一样，他的才真正起作用。”He opened the gate, passed through it, and strayed away down the glen.  He was soon out of sight.他打开了栅门，走了出去，溜达着行下峡谷，很快就不见了。On re-entering the parlour, I found Diana standing at the window, looking very thoughtful.  Diana was a great deal taller than I: she put her hand on my shoulder, and, stooping, examined my face.我再次进入客厅的时候，发觉黛安娜伫立窗边，看上去若有所思，她个子比我高得多。她把手搭在我肩上，俯身端详起我的脸来。“Jane,” she said, “you are always agitated and pale now.  I am sure there is something the matter.  Tell me what business St. John and you have on hands.  I have watched you this half hour from the window; you must forgive my being such a spy, but for a long time I have fancied I hardly know what.  St. John is a strange being—”“简，”她说，“现在你总是脸色苍白，焦躁不安。肯定是出了什么事了。告诉我，圣•约翰同你在闹什么别扭。我从这扇窗看了半个小时了。你得原谅我那么暗中监视你，但过了好久我还不知道自己是怎么回事。圣•约翰是个怪人——”She paused—I did not speak: soon she resumed—她顿了一下一一我没有吱声、她立刻接着说——：“That brother of mine cherishes peculiar views of some sort respecting you, I am sure: he has long distinguished you by a notice and interest he never showed to any one else—to what end?  I wish he loved you—does he, Jane?”“我这位哥哥对你的看法非同一般，我敢肯定。他早就对你特别注意和关心了，对别人可从来没有这样——什么目的呢？但愿他爱上了你——他爱你吗，简？”I put her cool hand to my hot forehead; “No, Die, not one whit.”我把她冷冰冰的手放在我发烫的额头上：“不，黛，没有那回事儿。”“Then why does he follow you so with his eyes, and get you so frequently alone with him, and keep you so continually at his side?  Mary and I had both concluded he wished you to marry him.”“那他干嘛眼睛老盯着你——老是要你同他单独在一起，而且一直把你留在他身边？玛丽和我都断定他希望你嫁给他。”“He does—he has asked me to be his wife.”“他确实是这样——他求我做他的妻子。”Diana clapped her hands.  “That is just what we hoped and thought!  And you will marry him, Jane, won’t you?  And then he will stay in England.”黛安娜拍手叫好。“这正是我们的愿望和想法呢！你会嫁给他的，简，是吗？那样他就会留在英国了。”“Far from that, Diana; his sole idea in proposing to me is to procure a fitting fellow-labourer in his Indian toils.”“他才不会呢，黛安娜。他向我求婚只有一个意思，那就是为他在印度的苦役找个合适的伙伴。”“What!  He wishes you to go to India?”“什么！他希望你去印度？”“Yes.”“不错。”“Madness!” she exclaimed.  “You would not live three months there, I am certain.  You never shall go: you have not consented, have you, Jane?”“简直疯了！”她嚷到。“我敢肯定，你在那里住不满三十月。你决不能去，你没有同意，是吧，简？”“I have refused to marry him—”“我已经拒绝嫁给他——”“And have consequently displeased him?” she suggested.“结果使他不高兴了？”她提醒说。“Deeply: he will never forgive me, I fear: yet I offered to accompany him as his sister.”“很不高兴，我担心他永远不会原谅我。不过我提出作为他的妹妹陪他去。”“It was frantic folly to do so, Jane.  Think of the task you undertook—one of incessant fatigue, where fatigue kills even the strong, and you are weak.  St. John—you know him—would urge you to impossibilities: with him there would be no permission to rest during the hot hours; and unfortunately, I have noticed, whatever he exacts, you force yourself to perform.  I am astonished you found courage to refuse his hand.  You do not love him then, Jane?”“那真是傻到极点了，简。想一想你要干的事吧——累个没完的，身强力壮的人都会给累死，更何况你又那么弱。圣•约翰——你知道他——会怂恿你去干做不到的事情。你要是跟着他，就是大热天也不让歇口气。可惜就我所见，凡是他强求你做的，你都逼着自己去完成。你倒是有勇气拒绝他的求婚，我真感到惊讶，那么你是不爱他了，简？”“Not as a husband.”“不是把他当作丈夫来爱。”“Yet he is a handsome fellow.”“不过他是个漂亮的家伙。”“And I am so plain, you see, Die.  We should never suit.”“而我又长得那么平庸，你知道，黛。我们决不般配。”“Plain!  You?  Not at all.  You are much too pretty, as well as too good, to be grilled alive in Calcutta.”  And again she earnestly conjured me to give up all thoughts of going out with her brother.“平庸！你？绝对不是。你太漂亮，也太好了，不值得那么活活地放到加尔各答去烤。”她再次真诚地恳求我放弃同她兄长一起出国的一切念头。“I must indeed,” I said; “for when just now I repeated the offer of serving him for a deacon, he expressed himself shocked at my want of decency.  He seemed to think I had committed an impropriety in proposing to accompany him unmarried: as if I had not from the first hoped to find in him a brother, and habitually regarded him as such.”“说真的我得这样，”我说，“因为刚才我再次提出愿意做他的副牧师时，他对我的不恭表示惊奇。他好像认为提议不结婚陪他去是有失体统，仿佛我一开始就不希望把他当成兄长，而且一直这么看他似的。”“What makes you say he does not love you, Jane?”“你怎么会说他不爱你呢，简？”“You should hear himself on the subject.  He has again and again explained that it is not himself, but his office he wishes to mate.  He has told me I am formed for labour—not for love: which is true, no doubt.  But, in my opinion, if I am not formed for love, it follows that I am not formed for marriage.  Would it not be strange, Die, to be chained for life to a man who regarded one but as a useful tool?”“你应该听听他自己谈谈对这个问题的看法。他口口声声解释说他要结婚，不是为了他自己，而是为了他的圣职。他还告诉我，我生来就是为了劳作，而不是为了爱情。无疑这话也有道理。但在我看来，如果我生来不是为了爱情，那么随之而来，也生来不是为了婚配。这岂不是咄咄怪事，黛，一生跟一个男人拴在一起，而他只把我当作一样有用的工具？”“Insupportable—unnatural—out of the question!”“不能容忍——不通人情——办不到的！”“And then,” I continued, “though I have only sisterly affection for him now, yet, if forced to be his wife, I can imagine the possibility of conceiving an inevitable, strange, torturing kind of love for him, because he is so talented; and there is often a certain heroic grandeur in his look, manner, and conversation.  In that case, my lot would become unspeakably wretched.  He would not want me to love him; and if I showed the feeling, he would make me sensible that it was a superfluity, unrequired by him, unbecoming in me.  I know he would.”“还有，”我继续说，“虽然我现在对他有兄妹之情，但要是我被迫做了他妻子，我能想象，我对他的爱很可能会无可奈何，奇怪反常，备受折磨。因为他那么有才能，神态、举动和谈吐无不诱出一种英雄气概。那样，我的命运就会悲惨得难以形容。他会不要我爱他，要是我依然有所表露，他会让我感到，那是多余的，他既不需要，对我也不合适。我知道他会这样。”“And yet St. John is a good man,” said Diana.“而圣•约翰是个好人，”黛安娜说。“He is a good and a great man; but he forgets, pitilessly, the feelings and claims of little people, in pursuing his own large views.  It is better, therefore, for the insignificant to keep out of his way, lest, in his progress, he should trample them down.  Here he comes!  I will leave you, Diana.”  And I hastened upstairs as I saw him entering the garden.“他是一个好人，也是个伟人。可惜他在追求大目标时，忘掉了小人物的情感和要求。因此，微不足道的人还是离他远一点好，免得他在前进时把他们踩倒了。他来了，我得走了，黛安娜。”我见他进了园子，便匆匆上楼去了。But I was forced to meet him again at supper.  During that meal he appeared just as composed as usual.  I had thought he would hardly speak to me, and I was certain he had given up the pursuit of his matrimonial scheme: the sequel showed I was mistaken on both points.  He addressed me precisely in his ordinary manner, or what had, of late, been his ordinary manner—one scrupulously polite.  No doubt he had invoked the help of the Holy Spirit to subdue the anger I had roused in him, and now believed he had forgiven me once more.但是吃晚饭时我不得不再次与他相遇。用餐时他完全像平常那样显得很平静，我本以为他不会同我说话了，而且确信他已经放弃了自己的婚姻计划，但后来的情况表明，在这两点上我都错了。他完全以平常的态度，或者说最近已习以为常的态度同我说话。无疑他求助于圣灵来克制我在他心里所激起的愤怒，现在他相信已再次宽恕了我。For the evening reading before prayers, he selected the twenty-first chapter of Revelation.  It was at all times pleasant to listen while from his lips fell the words of the Bible: never did his fine voice sound at once so sweet and full—never did his manner become so impressive in its noble simplicity, as when he delivered the oracles of God: and to-night that voice took a more solemn tone—that manner a more thrilling meaning—as he sat in the midst of his household circle (the May moon shining in through the uncurtained window, and rendering almost unnecessary the light of the candle on the table): as he sat there, bending over the great old Bible, and described from its page the vision of the new heaven and the new earth—told how God would come to dwell with men, how He would wipe away all tears from their eyes, and promised that there should be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, nor any more pain, because the former things were passed away.祷告前的晚读，他选了《启示录》的第二十一章。倾听《圣经》中的话从他嘴里吐出来始终是一种享受。他在发表上帝的圣谕时，他优美的嗓子是最洪亮又最动听的，他的态度之高尚纯朴也最令人难忘。而今天晚上，他的语调更加严肃——他的态度更富有令人震颤的含义——他坐在围成一圈的家人中间（五月的月亮透过没有拉上窗帘的窗子，泻进室内，使桌上的烛光显得几乎是多余的了）。他坐在那里，低头看着伟大而古老的圣经，描绘着书页中的新天堂和新世界的幻境——告诉大家上帝如何会来到世间与人同住，如何会抹去人们的眼泪，并允诺不会再有死亡，也不会有忧愁或者哭泣，不会有痛苦，因为这些往事都已一去不复回了。The succeeding words thrilled me strangely as he spoke them: especially as I felt, by the slight, indescribable alteration in sound, that in uttering them, his eye had turned on me.接着的一番话，他讲得让我出奇地激动不已，尤其是从他声音的难以描述的细小变化中，我感觉到，他在说这些话的时候，目光已经转向了我。“He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.  But,” was slowly, distinctly read, “the fearful, the unbelieving, &c., shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.”“得胜的，必承受这些为业，我要作他的上帝，他要作我的儿子。”这段话读得又慢又清楚，“唯有胆怯的，不信的……他们的份，就在烧着硫磺的火湖里，这是第二次的死。”Henceforward, I knew what fate St. John feared for me.从此。我知道圣•约翰担心什么命运会落在我头上。A calm, subdued triumph, blent with a longing earnestness, marked his enunciation of the last glorious verses of that chapter.  The reader believed his name was already written in the Lamb’s book of life, and he yearned after the hour which should admit him to the city to which the kings of the earth bring their glory and honour; which has no need of sun or moon to shine in it, because the glory of God lightens it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.他在朗读那一章最后几句壮丽的诗句时，露出一种平静而克制的得意之情，混杂着竭诚的渴望。这位朗读者相信，他的名字已经写在羔羊生命册上了，他盼望着允许他进城的时刻，地上的君王已将自己的荣耀光照，又有羔羊为城的灯。In the prayer following the chapter, all his energy gathered—all his stern zeal woke: he was in deep earnest, wrestling with God, and resolved on a conquest.  He supplicated strength for the weak-hearted; guidance for wanderers from the fold: a return, even at the eleventh hour, for those whom the temptations of the world and the flesh were luring from the narrow path.  He asked, he urged, he claimed the boon of a brand snatched from the burning.  Earnestness is ever deeply solemn: first, as I listened to that prayer, I wondered at his; then, when it continued and rose, I was touched by it, and at last awed.  He felt the greatness and goodness of his purpose so sincerely: others who heard him plead for it, could not but feel it too.在这章之后的祈祷中，他调动了全身的活力——他那一本正经的热情又复苏了，他虔诚地向上帝祈祷，决心要取胜。他祈求给弱者以力量；给脱离羊栏的迷路人以方向；让那些受世俗生活和情欲诱惑而离开正道者，关键时刻迷途而知返。他请求，他敦促，他要求上天开恩，让他们免于火烙。真诚永远是庄严的。开始，我听着祈祷的时候，对他的真诚心存疑惑；接着，祈祷继续进行并声音越来越响时，我被它所打动，最后终于不胜敬畏了。他真诚地感到他目的之伟大和高尚；那些听他为此祈祷的人也不能不产生同感。The prayer over, we took leave of him: he was to go at a very early hour in the morning.  Diana and Mary having kissed him, left the room—in compliance, I think, with a whispered hint from him: I tendered my hand, and wished him a pleasant journey.祈祷之后，我们向他告别，因为第二天一早他就要出门。黛安娜和玛丽吻了他以后离开了房间，想必是听从他的悄声暗示的缘故。我伸出手去，祝他旅途愉快。“Thank you, Jane.  As I said, I shall return from Cambridge in a fortnight: that space, then, is yet left you for reflection.  If I listened to human pride, I should say no more to you of marriage with me; but I listen to my duty, and keep steadily in view my first aim—to do all things to the glory of God.  My Master was long-suffering: so will I be.  I cannot give you up to perdition as a vessel of wrath: repent—resolve, while there is yet time.  Remember, we are bid to work while it is day—warned that ‘the night cometh when no man shall work.’  Remember the fate of Dives, who had his good things in this life.  God give you strength to choose that better part which shall not be taken from you!”“谢谢你，简。我说过，两周后我会从剑桥返回，那么这段时间留着供你思考。要是我听从人的尊严，我应当不再说起你同我结婚的事儿，但我听从职责，一直注视着我的第一个目标——为上帝的荣誉而竭尽全力。我的主长期受苦受难，我也会这样。我不能让你永坠地狱，变成受上天谴责的人。趁你还来得及的时候忏悔吧——下决心吧。记住，我们受到吩咐，要趁白天工作——我们还受到警告，‘黑夜将到，就没有人能作工了。’记住那些今世享福的财主的命运。上帝使你有力量选择好的福份，这福份是不能从你那儿夺走的。”He laid his hand on my head as he uttered the last words.  He had spoken earnestly, mildly: his look was not, indeed, that of a lover beholding his mistress, but it was that of a pastor recalling his wandering sheep—or better, of a guardian angel watching the soul for which he is responsible.  All men of talent, whether they be men of feeling or not; whether they be zealots, or aspirants, or despots—provided only they be sincere—have their sublime moments, when they subdue and rule.  I felt veneration for St. John—veneration so strong that its impetus thrust me at once to the point I had so long shunned.  I was tempted to cease struggling with him—to rush down the torrent of his will into the gulf of his existence, and there lose my own.  I was almost as hard beset by him now as I had been once before, in a different way, by another.  I was a fool both times.  To have yielded then would have been an error of principle; to have yielded now would have been an error of judgment.  So I think at this hour, when I look back to the crisis through the quiet medium of time: I was unconscious of folly at the instant.他说最后几个字时把手放在我头上，话说得很诚恳，也很委婉。说真的，他用的不是一个情人看女友的眼神，而是牧师召回迷途羔羊的目光——或许更好些，是一个守护神注视着他所监护的灵魂的目光，一切有才能的人，无论有无感情，无论是狂热者、还是追求者，抑或暴君——只要是诚恳的——在征服和统治期间都有令人崇敬的时刻。我崇敬圣•约翰——那么五体投地，结果所产生的冲击力一下子把我推到了我久久回避的那一点上。我很想停止同他搏斗——很想让他意志的洪流急速注入他生活的海峡，与我的水乳交融。现在我被他所困扰，几乎就象当初我受到另一个人的不同方式的困扰一样，两次我都做了傻瓜，在当时让步会是原则上的错误；而现在让步就会犯判断的错误。所以此时此刻我想，当我透过时间的平静中介，回头去看那危机时，当初我并没有意识到自己的愚蠢。I stood motionless under my hierophant’s touch.  My refusals were forgotten—my fears overcome—my wrestlings paralysed.  The Impossible—i.e., my marriage with St. John—was fast becoming the Possible.  All was changing utterly with a sudden sweep.  Religion called—Angels beckoned—God commanded—life rolled together like a scroll—death’s gates opening, showed eternity beyond: it seemed, that for safety and bliss there, all here might be sacrificed in a second.  The dim room was full of visions.我一动不动地站着，受着我的圣师的触摸。我忘却了拒绝——克服了恐惧——停止了搏斗。不可能的事——也就是我与圣•约翰的婚姻——很快要成为可能了。猛地一阵风过，全都变了样。宗教在呼唤——天使在招手——上帝在指挥——生命被卷起，好像书卷——死亡之门打开了，露出了彼岸的永恒。后来，为了那里的安全和幸福，顷刻之间这里什么都可以牺牲。阴暗的房间里充满了幻象。“Could you decide now?” asked the missionary.  The inquiry was put in gentle tones: he drew me to him as gently.  Oh, that gentleness! how far more potent is it than force!  I could resist St. John’s wrath: I grew pliant as a reed under his kindness.  Yet I knew all the time, if I yielded now, I should not the less be made to repent, some day, of my former rebellion.  His nature was not changed by one hour of solemn prayer: it was only elevated.“你现在就能决定吗？”传教士问。这问活的语调很温柔，他同样温柔地把我拉向他。呵，那么温柔！它比强迫要有力得多！我能抵御圣•约翰的愤怒，但面对他的和善，我便像芦苇一般柔顺了。但我始终很清楚，要是我现在让步，有一天我照样会对我以前的叛逆感到懊悔。他的本性并不因为一小时的庄严析祷而改变，只不过升华了而已。“I could decide if I were but certain,” I answered: “were I but convinced that it is God’s will I should marry you, I could vow to marry you here and now—come afterwards what would!”“只要有把握，我就能决定，”我回答：“只要能说服我嫁给你确实是上帝的意志，那我此时此刻就可以发誓嫁给你——不管以后会发生什么？”“My prayers are heard!” ejaculated St. John.  He pressed his hand firmer on my head, as if he claimed me: he surrounded me with his arm, almost as if he loved me (I say almost—I knew the difference—for I had felt what it was to be loved; but, like him, I had now put love out of the question, and thought only of duty).  I contended with my inward dimness of vision, before which clouds yet rolled.  I sincerely, deeply, fervently longed to do what was right; and only that.  “Show me, show me the path!” I entreated of Heaven.  I was excited more than I had ever been; and whether what followed was the effect of excitement the reader shall judge.“我的祈祷应验了！”圣•约翰失声叫道。他的手在我头上压得更紧了，仿佛他己经把我要去了。他用胳膊搂住我，几乎像是爱着我（我说“几乎”——我知道这中间的差别——因为我曾感受过被爱的滋味。但是像他一样，我已把爱置之度外，想的只是职守了）。我在疑云翻滚的内心同不明朗的态度斗争着。我诚恳地、深深地、热切地期望去做对的事情，也只做对的事情。“给我指点一下——给我指点一下道路吧？”我祈求上苍。我从来没有像现在那么激动过。至于后来发生的事情是不是激动的结果，读者自可判断。All the house was still; for I believe all, except St. John and myself, were now retired to rest.  The one candle was dying out: the room was full of moonlight.  My heart beat fast and thick: I heard its throb.  Suddenly it stood still to an inexpressible feeling that thrilled it through, and passed at once to my head and extremities.  The feeling was not like an electric shock, but it was quite as sharp, as strange, as startling: it acted on my senses as if their utmost activity hitherto had been but torpor, from which they were now summoned and forced to wake.  They rose expectant: eye and ear waited while the flesh quivered on my bones.整座房子寂静无声。因为我相信，除了圣•约翰和我自己，所有的人都安息了。那一根蜡烛幽幽将灭，室内洒满了月光。我的心砰砰乱跳，我听见了它的搏动声。突然一种难以言表的感觉使我的心为之震颤，并立即涌向我的头脑和四肢，我的心随之停止了跳动。这种感觉不象一阵电击，但它一样地尖锐，一样地古怪，一样地惊人。它作用于我的感官，仿佛它们在这之前的最活跃时刻也只不过处于麻木状态。而现在它们受到了召唤，被弄醒了。它们起来了，充满了期待，眼睛和耳朵等候着，而肌肉在骨头上哆嗦。“What have you heard?  What do you see?” asked St. John.  I saw nothing, but I heard a voice somewhere cry—“你听到了什么啦？你看见什么了吗？”圣•约翰问。我什么也没有看到，可是我听见一个声音在什么地方叫唤着——“Jane!  Jane!  Jane!”—nothing more.“简！简！简！”随后什么也听不到了。“O God! what is it?” I gasped.“呵，上帝呀！那是什么声音？”我喘息着。I might have said, “Where is it?” for it did not seem in the room—nor in the house—nor in the garden; it did not come out of the air—nor from under the earth—nor from overhead.  I had heard it—where, or whence, for ever impossible to know!  And it was the voice of a human being—a known, loved, well-remembered voice—that of Edward Fairfax Rochester; and it spoke in pain and woe, wildly, eerily, urgently.我本该说“这声音是从哪里来的？”因为它似乎不在房间里——也不在屋子里——也不在花园里。它不是来自空中——也不是来自地下——也不是来自头顶。我已经听到了这声音——从何而来，或者为何而来，那是永远无法知道的！而这是一个声音——一个熟悉、亲切、记忆犹新的声音——爱德华•费尔法克斯•罗切斯特的声音。这声音痛苦而悲哀——显得狂乱、怪异和急切。“I am coming!” I cried.  “Wait for me!  Oh, I will come!”  I flew to the door and looked into the passage: it was dark.  I ran out into the garden: it was void.“我来了！”我叫道。“等我一下！呵，我会来的！”我飞也似地走到门边，向走廊里窥视着，那时一灯漆黑，我冲进花园，里边空空如也。“Where are you?” I exclaimed.“你在哪儿？”我喊道。The hills beyond Marsh Glen sent the answer faintly back—“Where are you?”  I listened.  The wind sighed low in the firs: all was moorland loneliness and midnight hush.沼泽谷另一边的山峦隐隐约约地把回答传了过来——“你在哪儿？”我倾听着。风在冷杉中低吟着，一切只有荒原的孤独和午夜的沉寂。“Down superstition!” I commented, as that spectre rose up black by the black yew at the gate.  “This is not thy deception, nor thy witchcraft: it is the work of nature.  She was roused, and did—no miracle—but her best.”“去你的迷信！”那幽灵黑魈魈地在门外紫杉木旁边出现时我说道。“这不是你的骗局，也不是你的巫术，而是大自然的功劳。她苏醒了，虽然没有创造奇迹，却尽了最大的努力。”I broke from St. John, who had followed, and would have detained me.  It was my time to assume ascendency.  My powers were in play and in force.  I told him to forbear question or remark; I desired him to leave me: I must and would be alone.  He obeyed at once.  Where there is energy to command well enough, obedience never fails.  I mounted to my chamber; locked myself in; fell on my knees; and prayed in my way—a different way to St. John’s, but effective in its own fashion.  I seemed to penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit; and my soul rushed out in gratitude at His feet.  I rose from the thanksgiving—took a resolve—and lay down, unscared, enlightened—eager but for the daylight.我挣脱了跟着我并想留住我的圣•约翰。该轮到我处于支配地位了。我的力量在起作用，在发挥威力了。我告诉他不要再提问题，或是再发议论了。我希望他离开我。我必须而且也宁愿一个人呆着。他立刻听从了。只要有魄力下命令，别人总是听话的。我上楼回卧室，把自己锁在房里，跪了下来，以我的方式祈祷着——不同于圣•约翰的方式，他自有其效果，我似乎已进入了一颗伟大的心灵，我的灵魂感激地冲出去来到他脚边。我从感恩中站起来——下了决心——随后躺了下来，并不觉得害怕，却受到了启发——急切地盼着白昼的来临。CHAPTER XXXVI第三十六章The daylight came.  I rose at dawn.  I busied myself for an hour or two with arranging my things in my chamber, drawers, and wardrobe, in the order wherein I should wish to leave them during a brief absence.  Meantime, I heard St. John quit his room.  He stopped at my door: I feared he would knock—no, but a slip of paper was passed under the door.  I took it up.  It bore these words—白昼来临，拂晓时我便起身了。我忙了一两个小时，根据短期外出的需要，把房间、抽屉和衣橱里的东西作了安排。与此同时，我听到圣•约翰离开了房间，在我房门外停了一下，我担心他会敲门——不，他没有敲，却从门底下塞进来一个纸条，我拿起来一看，只见上面写着：“You left me too suddenly last night.  Had you stayed but a little longer, you would have laid your hand on the Christian’s cross and the angel’s crown.  I shall expect your clear decision when I return this day fortnight.  Meantime, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation: the spirit, I trust, is willing, but the flesh, I see, is weak.  I shall pray for you hourly.—Yours, St. John.”“咋晚你离开我太突然了。要是你再呆一会儿，你就会把手放在基督的十字架和天使的皇冠上了。二周后的今天我回来时盼你已作出明确的决定。同时，你要留心并祈祷，愿自己不受诱惑。我相信，灵是愿意的；但我也看到，肉是软弱的。我会时时为你祈祷——你的，圣•约翰。”“My spirit,” I answered mentally, “is willing to do what is right; and my flesh, I hope, is strong enough to accomplish the will of Heaven, when once that will is distinctly known to me.  At any rate, it shall be strong enough to search—inquire—to grope an outlet from this cloud of doubt, and find the open day of certainty.”“我的灵，”我心里回答，“乐意做一切对的事情，我希望我的肉也很坚强，一旦明确上帝的意志、便有力量去实现它。无论如何，我的肉体是够坚强的，让我可以去探求——询问——摸索出路，驱散疑云，找到确然无疑的晴空。”It was the first of June; yet the morning was overcast and chilly: rain beat fast on my casement.  I heard the front-door open, and St. John pass out.  Looking through the window, I saw him traverse the garden.  He took the way over the misty moors in the direction of Whitcross—there he would meet the coach.这是六月一日。早晨，满天阴云，凉气袭人，骤雨敲窗。我听见前门开了，圣•约翰走了出去。透过窗子，我看到他走过花园，踏上雾蒙蒙的荒原，朝惠特克劳斯方向走去，——那儿他将搭上马车。“In a few more hours I shall succeed you in that track, cousin,” thought I: “I too have a coach to meet at Whitcross.  I too have some to see and ask after in England, before I depart for ever.”“几小时之后我会循着你的足迹，表兄，”我想：“我也要去惠特克劳斯搭乘马车。在永远告别英国之前，我也有人要探望和问候。”It wanted yet two hours of breakfast-time.  I filled the interval in walking softly about my room, and pondering the visitation which had given my plans their present bent.  I recalled that inward sensation I had experienced: for I could recall it, with all its unspeakable strangeness.  I recalled the voice I had heard; again I questioned whence it came, as vainly as before: it seemed in me—not in the external world.  I asked was it a mere nervous impression—a delusion?  I could not conceive or believe: it was more like an inspiration.  The wondrous shock of feeling had come like the earthquake which shook the foundations of Paul and Silas’s prison; it had opened the doors of the soul’s cell and loosed its bands—it had wakened it out of its sleep, whence it sprang trembling, listening, aghast; then vibrated thrice a cry on my startled ear, and in my quaking heart and through my spirit, which neither feared nor shook, but exulted as if in joy over the success of one effort it had been privileged to make, independent of the cumbrous body.离早餐还有两个小时。这段时间我在房间里轻轻地走来走去，思忖着促成我眼前这番计划的奇事。我回忆着我所经历的内在感觉，我能回想起那种难以言说的怪异。我回想着我听到的声音，再次像以前那样徒劳地问，它究竟从何而来。这声音似乎来自我内心——而不是外部世界。我问道，难道这不过是一种神经质的印象——一种幻觉？我既无法想象，也并不相信。它更像是神灵的启示。这惊人的震感来势猛似地震，摇撼了保尔和西拉所在的监狱的地基，它打开了心灵的牢门，松开了锁链，——把心灵从沉睡中唤醒，它呆呆地颤栗着，倾听着。随后一声尖叫震动了三次，冲击着我受惊的耳朵，沉入我震颤的心田，穿透了我心灵。心灵既不害怕，也没有震惊，而是欢喜雀跃，仿佛因为有幸不受沉重的躯体支配，作了一次成功的努力而十分高兴似的。“Ere many days,” I said, as I terminated my musings, “I will know something of him whose voice seemed last night to summon me.  Letters have proved of no avail—personal inquiry shall replace them.”“不要很多天，”我从沉思中回过神来后说。“我会了解到他的一些情况，昨晚他的声音已经召唤过我。信函问询已证明毫无结果——我要代之以亲自探访。”At breakfast I announced to Diana and Mary that I was going a journey, and should be absent at least four days.早餐时，我向黛安娜和玛丽宣布，我要出门去，至少离开四天。“Alone, Jane?” they asked.“一个人去吗，简？”她们问。“Yes; it was to see or hear news of a friend about whom I had for some time been uneasy.”“是的，去看看，或者打听一下一个朋友的消息，我已为他担心了好久了。”They might have said, as I have no doubt they thought, that they had believed me to be without any friends save them: for, indeed, I had often said so; but, with their true natural delicacy, they abstained from comment, except that Diana asked me if I was sure I was well enough to travel.  I looked very pale, she observed.  I replied, that nothing ailed me save anxiety of mind, which I hoped soon to alleviate.正如我明白她们在想的那样，她们本可以说，一直以为除了她们，我没有别的朋友，其实我也总是这么讲的。但出于天生真诚的体贴，她们没有发表任何议论，除了黛安娜问我身体是否确实不错，是否适宜旅行。她说我脸色苍白。我回答说没有什么不适，只不过内心有些不安，但相信不久就会好的。It was easy to make my further arrangements; for I was troubled with no inquiries—no surmises.  Having once explained to them that I could not now be explicit about my plans, they kindly and wisely acquiesced in the silence with which I pursued them, according to me the privilege of free action I should under similar circumstances have accorded them.于是接下来的安排就容易了，因为我不必为刨根究底和东猜西想而烦恼。我一向她们解释，现在还不能明确宣布我的计划，她们便聪明而善解人意地默许我悄然进行，给了我在同样情况下也会给予她们的自由行动的特权。I left Moor House at three o’clock p.m., and soon after four I stood at the foot of the sign-post of Whitcross, waiting the arrival of the coach which was to take me to distant Thornfield.  Amidst the silence of those solitary roads and desert hills, I heard it approach from a great distance.  It was the same vehicle whence, a year ago, I had alighted one summer evening on this very spot—how desolate, and hopeless, and objectless!  It stopped as I beckoned.  I entered—not now obliged to part with my whole fortune as the price of its accommodation.  Once more on the road to Thornfield, I felt like the messenger-pigeon flying home.下午三点我离开了沼泽居，四点后不久，我便已站在惠特克劳斯的路牌下，等待着马车把我带到遥远的桑菲尔德去。在荒山野路的寂静之中，我很远就听到了马车靠近了。一年前的一个夏夜，我就是从这辆马车上走下来，就在这个地方——那么凄凉，那么无望，那么毫无目的！我一招手马车便停了下来。我上了车——现在已不必为一个座位而倾囊所有了。我再次踏上去桑菲尔德的路途，真有信鸽飞回家园之感。It was a journey of six-and-thirty hours.  I had set out from Whitcross on a Tuesday afternoon, and early on the succeeding Thursday morning the coach stopped to water the horses at a wayside inn, situated in the midst of scenery whose green hedges and large fields and low pastoral hills (how mild of feature and verdant of hue compared with the stern North-Midland moors of Morton!) met my eye like the lineaments of a once familiar face.  Yes, I knew the character of this landscape: I was sure we were near my bourne.这是一段三十六小时的旅程。星期二下午从惠特克劳斯出发，星期四一早，马车在路边的一家旅店停下，让马饮水。旅店座落在绿色的树篱、宽阔的田野和低矮的放牧小山之中（与中北部莫尔顿严峻的荒原相比，这里的地形多么柔和，颜色何等苍翠！），这番景色映入我眼帘，犹如一位一度熟悉的人的面容。不错，我了解这里景物的特点，我确信已接近目的地了。“How far is Thornfield Hall from here?” I asked of the ostler.“桑菲尔德离这儿有多远？”我问旅店侍马人。“Just two miles, ma’am, across the fields.”“穿过田野走两英里就到了，小姐。”“My journey is closed,” I thought to myself.  I got out of the coach, gave a box I had into the ostler’s charge, to be kept till I called for it; paid my fare; satisfied the coachman, and was going: the brightening day gleamed on the sign of the inn, and I read in gilt letters, “The Rochester Arms.”  My heart leapt up: I was already on my master’s very lands.  It fell again: the thought struck it:—“我的旅程结束了，”我暗自思忖。我跳下马车，把身边的一个盒子交给侍马人保管，回头再来提取，付了车钱，给足了马夫，便启程上路了。黎明的曙光照在旅店的招牌上，我看到了镀金的字母“罗切斯特纹章”，心便砰砰乱跳，原来我已来到我主人的地界。但转念一想，又心如止水了。“Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel, for aught you know: and then, if he is at Thornfield Hall, towards which you hasten, who besides him is there?  His lunatic wife: and you have nothing to do with him: you dare not speak to him or seek his presence.  You have lost your labour—you had better go no farther,” urged the monitor.  “Ask information of the people at the inn; they can give you all you seek: they can solve your doubts at once.  Go up to that man, and inquire if Mr. Rochester be at home.”“也许你的主人在英吉利海峡彼岸。况且，就是他在你匆匆前往的桑菲尔德府，除了他还有谁也在那里呢？还有他发了疯的妻子，而你与他毫不相干。你不敢同他说话，或者前去找他。你劳而无功——你还是别再往前走吧，”冥冥中的监视者敦促道。“从旅店里的人那里探听一下消息吧，他们会提供你寻觅的一切情况，立刻解开你的疑团，走到那个人跟前去，问问罗切斯特先生在不在家。”The suggestion was sensible, and yet I could not force myself to act on it.  I so dreaded a reply that would crush me with despair.  To prolong doubt was to prolong hope.  I might yet once more see the Hall under the ray of her star.  There was the stile before me—the very fields through which I had hurried, blind, deaf, distracted with a revengeful fury tracking and scourging me, on the morning I fled from Thornfield: ere I well knew what course I had resolved to take, I was in the midst of them.  How fast I walked!  How I ran sometimes!  How I looked forward to catch the first view of the well-known woods!  With what feelings I welcomed single trees I knew, and familiar glimpses of meadow and hill between them!这个建议很明智，但我无法迫使自己去实施。我害怕得到一个让我绝望的回答。延长疑虑就是延长希望。我也许能再见一见星光照耀下的府第。我面前还是那道踏阶——还是那片田野，那天早晨我逃离桑菲尔德，急急忙忙穿过这片田野，不顾一切，漫无目的，心烦意乱，被一种复仇的愤怒跟踪着，痛苦地折磨着。呵，我还没决定走哪条路，就己置身于这片田野之中了。我走得好快呀！有时候我那么奔跑着！我多么希望一眼就看到熟悉的林子呵，我是带着怎样的感情来欢迎我所熟悉的一棵棵树木，以及树与树之间的草地和小山呵！At last the woods rose; the rookery clustered dark; a loud cawing broke the morning stillness.  Strange delight inspired me: on I hastened.  Another field crossed—a lane threaded—and there were the courtyard walls—the back offices: the house itself, the rookery still hid.  “My first view of it shall be in front,” I determined, “where its bold battlements will strike the eye nobly at once, and where I can single out my master’s very window: perhaps he will be standing at it—he rises early: perhaps he is now walking in the orchard, or on the pavement in front.  Could I but see him!—but a moment!  Surely, in that case, I should not be so mad as to run to him?  I cannot tell—I am not certain.  And if I did—what then?  God bless him!  What then?  Who would be hurt by my once more tasting the life his glance can give me?  I rave: perhaps at this moment he is watching the sun rise over the Pyrenees, or on the tideless sea of the south.”树林终于出现在眼前，白嘴鸦黑压压一片，呱呱的响亮叫声打破了清晨的寂静。一种奇怪的喜悦激励着我，使我急煎煎往前赶路，穿过另一片田野——走过一条小径——看到了院墙——但后屋的下房、府搂本身、以及白嘴鸦的巢穴，依然隐而不见。“我第一眼看到的应是府第的正面，”我心里很有把握，“那里雄伟醒目的城垛会立刻扑入眼帘；那里我能认出我主人的那扇窗子，也许他会伫立窗前——他起得很早。也许他这会儿正漫步在果园里，或音前面铺筑过的路上。要是我能见见他该多好！——就是一会儿也好！当然要是那样，我总不该发狂到向他直冲过去吧？我说不上来——我不敢肯定。要是我冲上去了——那又怎么样？上帝祝福他！那又怎么样？让我回味一下他的目光所给予我的生命，又会伤害了谁呢？——我在呓语。也许此刻他在比利牛斯山或者南部风平浪的的海面上规赏着日出呢。”I had coasted along the lower wall of the orchard—turned its angle: there was a gate just there, opening into the meadow, between two stone pillars crowned by stone balls.  From behind one pillar I could peep round quietly at the full front of the mansion.  I advanced my head with precaution, desirous to ascertain if any bedroom window-blinds were yet drawn up: battlements, windows, long front—all from this sheltered station were at my command.我信步朝果园的矮墙走去，在拐角处转了弯，这里有一扇门，开向草地，门两边有两根石柱，顶上有两个石球。从一根石柱后面我可以悄然四顾，看到府宅的全部正面。我小心地探出头去，很希望看个明白，是不是有的窗帘已经卷起。从这个隐蔽的地方望去，城垛、窗子和府楼长长的正面，尽收眼底。The crows sailing overhead perhaps watched me while I took this survey.  I wonder what they thought.  They must have considered I was very careful and timid at first, and that gradually I grew very bold and reckless.  A peep, and then a long stare; and then a departure from my niche and a straying out into the meadow; and a sudden stop full in front of the great mansion, and a protracted, hardy gaze towards it.  “What affectation of diffidence was this at first?” they might have demanded; “what stupid regardlessness now?”我这么观察着的时候，在头顶滑翔的乌鸦们也许正俯视着我。我不知道它们在想什么，它们一定以为起初我十分小心和胆怯，但渐渐地我变得大胆而鲁莽了。我先是窥视一下，随后久久盯着，再后是离开我躲藏的角落，不经意走进了草地，突然在府宅正面停下脚步，久久地死盯着它。“起初为什么装模做样羞羞答答？”乌鸦们也许会问，“而这会儿又为什么傻里傻气，不顾一切了？”Hear an illustration, reader.读者呀，且听我解释。A lover finds his mistress asleep on a mossy bank; he wishes to catch a glimpse of her fair face without waking her.  He steals softly over the grass, careful to make no sound; he pauses—fancying she has stirred: he withdraws: not for worlds would he be seen.  All is still: he again advances: he bends above her; a light veil rests on her features: he lifts it, bends lower; now his eyes anticipate the vision of beauty—warm, and blooming, and lovely, in rest.  How hurried was their first glance!  But how they fix!  How he starts!  How he suddenly and vehemently clasps in both arms the form he dared not, a moment since, touch with his finger!  How he calls aloud a name, and drops his burden, and gazes on it wildly!  He thus grasps and cries, and gazes, because he no longer fears to waken by any sound he can utter—by any movement he can make.  He thought his love slept sweetly: he finds she is stone dead.一位情人发现他的爱人睡在长满青苔的河岸上，他希望看一眼她漂亮的面孔而不惊醒她。他悄悄地踏上草地，注意不发出一点声响，他停下脚步——想象她翻了个身。他往后退去，千方百计要不让她看到。四周万籁俱寂。他再次往前走去，向她低下头去。她的脸上盖着一块轻纱。他揭开面纱，身子弯得更低了。这会儿他的眼睛期待着看到这个美人儿——安睡中显得热情、年青和可爱。他的第一眼多么急不可耐！但他两眼发呆了：他多么吃惊！他又何等突然，何等激烈地紧紧抱住不久之前连碰都不敢碰的这个躯体，用手指去碰它！他大声呼叫着一个名字，放下了抱着的身躯，狂乱地直愣愣瞧着它。他于是紧抱着，呼叫着，凝视着，因为他不再担心他发出的任何声音，所做的任何动作会把她惊醒。他以为他的爱人睡得很甜。但此发现她早己死去了。I looked with timorous joy towards a stately house: I saw a blackened ruin.我带着怯生生的喜悦朝堂皇的府第看去，我看到了一片焦黑的废墟。No need to cower behind a gate-post, indeed!—to peep up at chamber lattices, fearing life was astir behind them!  No need to listen for doors opening—to fancy steps on the pavement or the gravel-walk!  The lawn, the grounds were trodden and waste: the portal yawned void.  The front was, as I had once seen it in a dream, but a well-like wall, very high and very fragile-looking, perforated with paneless windows: no roof, no battlements, no chimneys—all had crashed in.没有必要躲在门柱后面畏缩不前了，真的！——没有必要偷偷地眺望房间的格子窗，而担心窗后已有动静！没有必要倾听打开房门的声音——没有必要想象铺筑过的路和砂石小径上的脚步声了，草地，庭院已踏得稀烂，一片荒芜。入口的门空张着。府第的正门象我一次梦中所见的那样，剩下了贝壳似的一堵墙，高高耸立，却岌岌可危，布满了没有玻璃的窗孔。没有屋顶，没有城垛，没有烟囱——全都倒塌了。And there was the silence of death about it: the solitude of a lonesome wild.  No wonder that letters addressed to people here had never received an answer: as well despatch epistles to a vault in a church aisle.  The grim blackness of the stones told by what fate the Hall had fallen—by conflagration: but how kindled?  What story belonged to this disaster?  What loss, besides mortar and marble and wood-work had followed upon it?  Had life been wrecked as well as property?  If so, whose?  Dreadful question: there was no one here to answer it—not even dumb sign, mute token.这里笼罩着死一般的沉寂和旷野的凄凉。怪不得给这儿的人写信，仿佛是送信给教堂过道上的墓穴，从来得不到答复。黑森森的石头诉说着府宅遭了什么厄运，一火灾。但又是怎么烧起来的呢？这场灾难的经过加何？除了灰浆、大理石和木制品，还有什么其他损失呢，生命是不是象财产一样遭到了毁灭？如果是，谁丧失了生命？这个可怕的问题，眼前没有谁来回答——甚至连默默的迹象、无言的标记都无法回答。In wandering round the shattered walls and through the devastated interior, I gathered evidence that the calamity was not of late occurrence.  Winter snows, I thought, had drifted through that void arch, winter rains beaten in at those hollow casements; for, amidst the drenched piles of rubbish, spring had cherished vegetation: grass and weed grew here and there between the stones and fallen rafters.  And oh! where meantime was the hapless owner of this wreck?  In what land?  Under what auspices?  My eye involuntarily wandered to the grey church tower near the gates, and I asked, “Is he with Damer de Rochester, sharing the shelter of his narrow marble house?”我徘徊在断垣颓壁之间，穿行于残破的府宅内层之中，获得了迹象，表明这场灾难不是最近发生的。我想，冬雪曾经飘入空空的拱门，冬雨打在没有玻璃的窗户上。在一堆堆湿透了的垃圾中，春意催发了草木，乱石堆中和断梁之间，处处长出了野草。呵！这片废墟的主人又在哪里？他在哪个国度？在谁的保护之下？我的目光不由自主地飘向了大门边灰色的教堂塔楼，我问道，“难道他已随戴默尔•德•罗切斯特而去，共住在狭窄的大理石房子里？”Some answer must be had to these questions.  I could find it nowhere but at the inn, and thither, ere long, I returned.  The host himself brought my breakfast into the parlour.  I requested him to shut the door and sit down: I had some questions to ask him.  But when he complied, I scarcely knew how to begin; such horror had I of the possible answers.  And yet the spectacle of desolation I had just left prepared me in a measure for a tale of misery.  The host was a respectable-looking, middle-aged man.这些问题都得找到答案。而除了旅店，别处是找不到的。于是不久我便返回那里。老板亲自把早餐端到客厅里来，我请他关了门，坐下来。我有些问题要问他，但待他答应之后，我却不知道从何开始了。我对可能得到的回答怀着一种恐俱感，然而刚才看到的那番荒凉景象，为一个悲惨的故事作好了一定的准备。老板看上去是位体面的中年人。“You know Thornfield Hall, of course?” I managed to say at last.“你当然知道桑菲尔德府了？”我终于启齿了。“Yes, ma’am; I lived there once.”“是的，小姐，我以前在那里住过。”“Did you?”  Not in my time, I thought: you are a stranger to me.“是吗？”不是我在的时候，我想。我觉得他很陌生。“I was the late Mr. Rochester’s butler,” he added.“我是已故的罗切斯特先生的管家，”他补充道。The late!  I seem to have received, with full force, the blow I had been trying to evade.已故的！我觉得我避之不迭的打击重重地落到我头上了。“The late!” I gasped.  “Is he dead?”“已故的！”我透不过气来了。“他死了？”“I mean the present gentleman, Mr. Edward’s father,” he explained.  I breathed again: my blood resumed its flow.  Fully assured by these words that Mr. Edward—my Mr. Rochester (God bless him, wherever he was!)—was at least alive: was, in short, “the present gentleman.”  Gladdening words!  It seemed I could hear all that was to come—whatever the disclosures might be—with comparative tranquillity.  Since he was not in the grave, I could bear, I thought, to learn that he was at the Antipodes.“我说的是现在的老爷，爱德华先生的父亲，”他解释说。我又喘过气来了，我的血液也继续流动。他的这番话使我确信，爱德华先生——我的罗切斯特先生（无论他在何方，愿上帝祝福他！）至少还活着，总之还是“现在的老爷”，（多让人高兴的话！）我似乎觉得，不管他会透露什么消息，我会比较平静地去倾听。我想，就是知道他在新西兰和澳大利亚，我都能忍受。“Is Mr. Rochester living at Thornfield Hall now?” I asked, knowing, of course, what the answer would be, but yet desirous of deferring the direct question as to where he really was.“罗切斯特先生如今还住在桑菲尔德府吗？”我问，当然知道他会怎样回答，但并不想马上就直截了当地问起他的确实住处。“No, ma’am—oh, no!  No one is living there.  I suppose you are a stranger in these parts, or you would have heard what happened last autumn,—Thornfield Hall is quite a ruin: it was burnt down just about harvest-time.  A dreadful calamity! such an immense quantity of valuable property destroyed: hardly any of the furniture could be saved.  The fire broke out at dead of night, and before the engines arrived from Millcote, the building was one mass of flame.  It was a terrible spectacle: I witnessed it myself.”“不，小姐——呵，不！那儿已没有人住了，我想你对附近地方很陌生，不然你会听到过去年秋天发生的事情。桑菲尔德府已经全毁了。大约秋收的时候烧掉的——一场可怕的灾难！那么多值钱的财产都毁掉了，几乎没有一件家具幸免。火灾是深夜发生的，从米尔科特来的救火车还没有开到，府宅已经是一片熊熊大火。这景象真可怕，我是亲眼见到的。”“At dead of night!” I muttered.  Yes, that was ever the hour of fatality at Thornfield.  “Was it known how it originated?” I demanded.“深夜！”我咕哝着。是呀，在桑菲尔德府那是致命的时刻。“知道是怎么引起的吗？”我问。“They guessed, ma’am: they guessed.  Indeed, I should say it was ascertained beyond a doubt.  You are not perhaps aware,” he continued, edging his chair a little nearer the table, and speaking low, “that there was a lady—a—a lunatic, kept in the house?”“他们猜想，小姐，他们是这么猜想的，其实，我该说那是确然无疑的。你也许不知道吧，”他往下说，把椅子往桌子稍稍挪了挪，声音放得很低，“有一位夫人——一个——一个疯子，关在屋子里？”“I have heard something of it.”“我隐隐约约听到过。”“She was kept in very close confinement, ma’am: people even for some years was not absolutely certain of her existence.  No one saw her: they only knew by rumour that such a person was at the Hall; and who or what she was it was difficult to conjecture.  They said Mr. Edward had brought her from abroad, and some believed she had been his mistress.  But a queer thing happened a year since—a very queer thing.”“她被严加看管着，小姐。好几年了，外人都不能完全确定有她这么个人在。没有人见过她。他们只不过凭谣传知道，府里有这样一个人。她究竟是谁，干什么的，却很难想象。他们说是爱德华先生从国外把她带回来的。有人相信，是他的情妇。但一年前发生了一件奇怪的事情——一件非常奇怪的事情。”I feared now to hear my own story.  I endeavoured to recall him to the main fact.我担心这会儿要听我自己的故事了。我竭力把他拉回到正题上。“And this lady?”“这位太太呢？”“This lady, ma’am,” he answered, “turned out to be Mr. Rochester’s wife!  The discovery was brought about in the strangest way.  There was a young lady, a governess at the Hall, that Mr. Rochester fell in—”“这位太太，小姐，”他回答，“原来就是罗切斯特先生的妻子！发现的方式也是再奇怪不过的。府上有一位年青小姐，是位家庭教师，罗切斯特先生与她相爱了——”“But the fire,” I suggested.“可是火灾呢？”我提醒。“I’m coming to that, ma’am—that Mr. Edward fell in love with.  The servants say they never saw anybody so much in love as he was: he was after her continually.  They used to watch him—servants will, you know, ma’am—and he set store on her past everything: for all, nobody but him thought her so very handsome.  She was a little small thing, they say, almost like a child.  I never saw her myself; but I’ve heard Leah, the house-maid, tell of her.  Leah liked her well enough.  Mr. Rochester was about forty, and this governess not twenty; and you see, when gentlemen of his age fall in love with girls, they are often like as if they were bewitched.  Well, he would marry her.”“我就要谈到了，小姐——爱德华先生爱上了。佣人们说，他们从来没有见到有谁像他那么倾心过。他死死追求她。他们总是注意着他——你知道佣人们会这样的，小姐——他倾慕她，胜过了一切。所有的人，除了他，没有人认为她很漂亮。他们说，她是个小不点儿，几乎象个孩子。我从来没有见过她，不过听女仆莉娅说起过。莉娅也是够喜欢她的。罗切斯特先生四十岁左右，这个家庭女教师还不到二十岁。你瞧，他这种年纪的男人爱上了姑娘们，往往象是神魂颠倒似的。是呀，他要娶她。”“You shall tell me this part of the story another time,” I said; “but now I have a particular reason for wishing to hear all about the fire.  Was it suspected that this lunatic, Mrs. Rochester, had any hand in it?”“这部份故事改日再谈吧，”我说，“而现在我特别想要听听你说说大火的事儿。是不是怀疑这个疯子，罗切斯特太太参与其中？”“You’ve hit it, ma’am: it’s quite certain that it was her, and nobody but her, that set it going.  She had a woman to take care of her called Mrs. Poole—an able woman in her line, and very trustworthy, but for one fault—a fault common to a deal of them nurses and matrons—she kept a private bottle of gin by her, and now and then took a drop over-much.  It is excusable, for she had a hard life of it: but still it was dangerous; for when Mrs. Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water, the mad lady, who was as cunning as a witch, would take the keys out of her pocket, let herself out of her chamber, and go roaming about the house, doing any wild mischief that came into her head.  They say she had nearly burnt her husband in his bed once: but I don’t know about that.  However, on this night, she set fire first to the hangings of the room next her own, and then she got down to a lower storey, and made her way to the chamber that had been the governess’s—(she was like as if she knew somehow how matters had gone on, and had a spite at her)—and she kindled the bed there; but there was nobody sleeping in it, fortunately.  The governess had run away two months before; and for all Mr. Rochester sought her as if she had been the most precious thing he had in the world, he never could hear a word of her; and he grew savage—quite savage on his disappointment: he never was a wild man, but he got dangerous after he lost her.  He would be alone, too.  He sent Mrs. Fairfax, the housekeeper, away to her friends at a distance; but he did it handsomely, for he settled an annuity on her for life: and she deserved it—she was a very good woman.  Miss Adèle, a ward he had, was put to school.  He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry, and shut himself up like a hermit at the Hall.”“你说对了，小姐。肯定是她，除了她，没有谁会放火的。她有一个女人照应，名叫普尔太太——干那一行是很能干的，也很可靠。但有一个毛病——那些看护和主妇的通病——她私自留着—瓶杜松子酒，而且常常多喝那么一口。那也是可以原谅的，因为她活得太辛苦了，不过那很危险，酒和水一下肚，普尔太太睡得烂熟，那位像巫婆一般狡猾的疯女人，便会从她口袋里掏出钥匙，开了门溜出房间，在府宅游荡，心血来潮便什么荒唐的事都干得出来。他们说，有一回差一点把她的丈夫烧死在床上。不过我不知道那回事。但是，那天晚上，她先是放火点燃了隔壁房间的帷幔，随后下了一层楼，走到原来那位家庭女教师的房间（不知怎么搞的，她似乎知道事情的进展，而且对她怀恨在心）——给她的床放了把火，幸亏没有人睡在里面。两个月前，那个家庭女教师就出走了。尽管罗切斯特先生拼命找她，仿佛她是稀世珍宝，但她还是杳无音讯。他变得越来越粗暴了——因为失望而非常粗暴。他从来就不是一个性性情温和的人，而失去她以后，简直就危险了。他还喜欢孤身独处，把管家费尔法克斯太太送到她远方的朋友那儿去了。不过他做得很慷慨，付给她一笔终身年金，而她也是受之无愧的——她是一个很好的女人。他把他监护的阿黛勒小姐，送进了学校。与所有的绅士们断绝了往来，自己像隐士那样住在府上，闭门不出。”“What! did he not leave England?”“什么！他没有离开英国？”“Leave England?  Bless you, no!  He would not cross the door-stones of the house, except at night, when he walked just like a ghost about the grounds and in the orchard as if he had lost his senses—which it is my opinion he had; for a more spirited, bolder, keener gentleman than he was before that midge of a governess crossed him, you never saw, ma’am.  He was not a man given to wine, or cards, or racing, as some are, and he was not so very handsome; but he had a courage and a will of his own, if ever man had.  I knew him from a boy, you see: and for my part, I have often wished that Miss Eyre had been sunk in the sea before she came to Thornfield Hall.”“离开英国？哎哟，没有！他连门槛都不跨出去。除了夜里，他会像一个幽灵那样在庭院和果园里游荡——仿佛神经错乱似的——依我看是这么回事。他败在那位小个子女教师手里之前，小姐，你从来没见过哪位先生像他那么活跃，那么大胆、那么勇敢。他不是像有些人那样热衷于饮酒、玩牌和赛马，他也不怎么漂亮，但他有着男人特有的勇气和意志力。你瞧，他还是一个孩子的时候我就认识他了，至于我，但愿那位爱小姐，还没到桑菲尔德府就给沉到海底去了。”“Then Mr. Rochester was at home when the fire broke out?”“那么起火时罗切斯特先生是在家里了？”“Yes, indeed was he; and he went up to the attics when all was burning above and below, and got the servants out of their beds and helped them down himself, and went back to get his mad wife out of her cell.  And then they called out to him that she was on the roof, where she was standing, waving her arms, above the battlements, and shouting out till they could hear her a mile off: I saw her and heard her with my own eyes.  She was a big woman, and had long black hair: we could see it streaming against the flames as she stood.  I witnessed, and several more witnessed, Mr. Rochester ascend through the sky-light on to the roof; we heard him call ‘Bertha!’  We saw him approach her; and then, ma’am, she yelled and gave a spring, and the next minute she lay smashed on the pavement.”“不错，他确实在家。上上下下都烧起来的时候，他上了阁楼，把仆人们从床上叫醒，亲自帮他们下楼来——随后又返回去，要把发疯的妻子弄出房间。那时他们喊他，说她在屋顶。她站在城垛上、挥动着胳膊，大喊大叫，一英里外都听得见。我亲眼见了她，亲耳听到了她的声音。她个儿很大，头发又长又黑，站着时我们看到她的头发映着火光在飘动。我亲眼看到，还有好几个人也看到了罗切斯特先生穿过天窗爬上了屋顶。我们听他叫了声“佩莎！”我们见他朝她走去，随后，小姐，她大叫一声，纵身跳了下去，刹那之间，她已躺在路上，粉身碎骨了。”“Dead?”“死了？”“Dead!  Ay, dead as the stones on which her brains and blood were scattered.”“死了！呵，完全断气了，在石头上脑浆迸裂，鲜血四溅。”“Good God!”“天哪！”“You may well say so, ma’am: it was frightful!” He shuddered.“你完全可以这么说，小姐，真吓人哪！”他打了个寒颤。“And afterwards?” I urged.“那么后来呢？”我催促着，“Well, ma’am, afterwards the house was burnt to the ground: there are only some bits of walls standing now.”“唉呀，小姐，后来整座房子都夷为平地了，眼下只有几截子墙还立着。”“Were any other lives lost?”“还死了其他人吗？”“No—perhaps it would have been better if there had.”“没有——要是有倒也许还好些？”“What do you mean?”“你这话是什么意思？”“Poor Mr. Edward!” he ejaculated, “I little thought ever to have seen it!  Some say it was a just judgment on him for keeping his first marriage secret, and wanting to take another wife while he had one living: but I pity him, for my part.”“可怜的爱德华，”他失声叫道，“我从来没有想到会见到这样的事情！有人说那不过是对他瞒了第一次婚姻，妻子活着还想再娶的报应。但拿我来讲，我是怜悯他的。”“You said he was alive?” I exclaimed.“你说了他还活着？”我叫道。“Yes, yes: he is alive; but many think he had better be dead.”“是呀，是呀，他还活着。但很多人认为他还是死了的好。”“Why?  How?”  My blood was again running cold.  “Where is he?” I demanded.  “Is he in England?”“为什么？怎么会呢？”我的血又冰冷了。“他在哪儿？”我问。“在英国吗？”“Ay—ay—he’s in England; he can’t get out of England, I fancy—he’s a fixture now.”“呵——呵——他是在英国，他没有办法走出英国，我想——现在他是寸步难行了。”What agony was this!  And the man seemed resolved to protract it.那是什么病痛呀？这人似乎决意吞吞吐吐。“He is stone-blind,” he said at last.  “Yes, he is stone-blind, is Mr. Edward.”“他全瞎了，”他终于说。“是呀，他全瞎了——爱德华先生。”I had dreaded worse.  I had dreaded he was mad.  I summoned strength to ask what had caused this calamity.我担心更坏的结局，担心他疯了。我鼓足勇气问他造成灾难的原因。“It was all his own courage, and a body may say, his kindness, in a way, ma’am: he wouldn’t leave the house till every one else was out before him.  As he came down the great staircase at last, after Mrs. Rochester had flung herself from the battlements, there was a great crash—all fell.  He was taken out from under the ruins, alive, but sadly hurt: a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him partly; but one eye was knocked out, and one hand so crushed that Mr. Carter, the surgeon, had to amputate it directly.  The other eye inflamed: he lost the sight of that also.  He is now helpless, indeed—blind and a cripple.”“全是因为他的胆量，你也可以说，因为他的善良，小姐。他要等所有的人在他之前逃出来了才肯离开房子。罗切斯特夫人跳下城垛后，他终于走下了那个大楼梯，就在这时，轰隆一声，全都塌了下来。他从废墟底下被拖了出来，虽然还活着，但伤势严重。一根大梁掉了下来，正好护住了他一些。不过他的一只眼睛被砸了出来，一只手被压烂了，因此医生卡特不得不将它立刻截了下来。另一只眼睛发炎了，也失去了视力。如今他又瞎又残，实在是束手无策了。”“Where is he?  Where does he now live?”“他在哪儿？他现在住在什么地方？”“At Ferndean, a manor-house on a farm he has, about thirty miles off: quite a desolate spot.”“在芬丁，他的一个庄园里，离这里三十英里，是个很荒凉的地方。”“Who is with him?”“谁跟他在一起？”“Old John and his wife: he would have none else.  He is quite broken down, they say.”“老约翰和他的妻子。别人他都不要。他们说，他身体全垮了。”“Have you any sort of conveyance?”“你有什么车辆吗？”“We have a chaise, ma’am, a very handsome chaise.”“我们有一辆轻便马车，小姐，很好看的一辆车。”“Let it be got ready instantly; and if your post-boy can drive me to Ferndean before dark this day, I’ll pay both you and him twice the hire you usually demand.”“马上把车准备好。要是你那位驿车送信人肯在天黑前把我送到芬丁，我会付给你和他双倍的价钱。”CHAPTER XXXVII第三十七章The manor-house of Ferndean was a building of considerable antiquity, moderate size, and no architectural pretensions, deep buried in a wood.  I had heard of it before.  Mr. Rochester often spoke of it, and sometimes went there.  His father had purchased the estate for the sake of the game covers.  He would have let the house, but could find no tenant, in consequence of its ineligible and insalubrious site.  Ferndean then remained uninhabited and unfurnished, with the exception of some two or three rooms fitted up for the accommodation of the squire when he went there in the season to shoot.芬丁庄园掩藏在林木之中，是一幢相当古老的大楼，面积中等，建筑朴实，我早有所闻。罗切斯特先生常常谈起它，有时还上那儿去。他的父亲为了狩猎购下了这份产业。他本想把它租出去，却因为地点不好，环境欠佳，而找不到租户。结果除了两三间房子装修了一下，供这位乡绅狩猎季节住宿用，整个庄园空关着，也没有布置。To this house I came just ere dark on an evening marked by the characteristics of sad sky, cold gale, and continued small penetrating rain.  The last mile I performed on foot, having dismissed the chaise and driver with the double remuneration I had promised.  Even when within a very short distance of the manor-house, you could see nothing of it, so thick and dark grew the timber of the gloomy wood about it.  Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter, and passing through them, I found myself at once in the twilight of close-ranked trees.  There was a grass-grown track descending the forest aisle between hoar and knotty shafts and under branched arches.  I followed it, expecting soon to reach the dwelling; but it stretched on and on, it would far and farther: no sign of habitation or grounds was visible.天黑之前，我来到了这座花园。那是个阴霾满天，冷风呼呼，细雨霏霏的黄昏。我守信付了双倍的价钱，打发走了马车和马车夫，步行了最后一英里路。庄园周围的树林枝繁叶茂，郁郁葱葱，即使走得很近，也不见庄园的踪影。两根花岗石柱之间的铁门，才使我明白该从什么地方进去。进门之后，我便立即置身于密林的晦暗之中了。有一条杂草丛生的野径，沿着林荫小道而下，两旁是灰白多节的树干，顶上是枝桠交叉的拱门。我顺着这条路走去，以为很快就会到达住宅。谁知它不断往前延伸，逶迤盘桓，看不见住宅或庭园的痕迹。I thought I had taken a wrong direction and lost my way.  The darkness of natural as well as of sylvan dusk gathered over me.  I looked round in search of another road.  There was none: all was interwoven stem, columnar trunk, dense summer foliage—no opening anywhere.我想自己搞错了方向，迷了路。夜色和密林的灰暗同时笼罩着我，我环顾左右，想另找出路。但没有找到，这里只有纵横交织的树枝、园柱形的树干和夏季浓密的树叶——没有哪儿有出口。I proceeded: at last my way opened, the trees thinned a little; presently I beheld a railing, then the house—scarce, by this dim light, distinguishable from the trees; so dank and green were its decaying walls.  Entering a portal, fastened only by a latch, I stood amidst a space of enclosed ground, from which the wood swept away in a semicircle.  There were no flowers, no garden-beds; only a broad gravel-walk girdling a grass-plat, and this set in the heavy frame of the forest.  The house presented two pointed gables in its front; the windows were latticed and narrow: the front door was narrow too, one step led up to it.  The whole looked, as the host of the Rochester Arms had said, “quite a desolate spot.”  It was as still as a church on a week-day: the pattering rain on the forest leaves was the only sound audible in its vicinage.我继续往前走去。这条路终于有了出口，树林也稀疏些了。我立刻看到了一排栏杆。随后是房子——在暗洞洞的光线中，依稀能把它与树木分开。颓败的墙壁阴湿碧绿。我进了一扇只不过上了栓的门，站在围墙之内的一片空地上，那里的树木呈半园形展开。没有花草，没有苗圃。只有一条宽阔的砂石路绕着一小片草地，藏于茂密的森林之中。房子的正面有两堵突出的山墙。窗子很窄，装有格子，正门也很窄小，一步就到了门口，正如“罗切斯特纹章”的老板所说，整个庄园显得“十分荒凉”，静得像周日的教堂。落在树叶上的哗哗雨声是附近入耳的唯一声音。“Can there be life here?” I asked.“这儿会有生命吗？”我暗自问道。Yes, life of some kind there was; for I heard a movement—that narrow front-door was unclosing, and some shape was about to issue from the grange.不错，是存在着某种生命，因为我听见了响动——狭窄的正门打开了，田庄里就要出现某个人影了。It opened slowly: a figure came out into the twilight and stood on the step; a man without a hat: he stretched forth his hand as if to feel whether it rained.  Dusk as it was, I had recognised him—it was my master, Edward Fairfax Rochester, and no other.门慢慢地开了。薄暮中一个人影走了出来，站在台阶上。一个没有戴帽子的男人。他伸出手仿佛要感觉一下是不是在下雨。尽管已是黄昏，我还是认出他来了——那不是别人，恰恰就是我主人，爱德华•费尔法克斯•罗切斯特。I stayed my step, almost my breath, and stood to watch him—to examine him, myself unseen, and alas! to him invisible.  It was a sudden meeting, and one in which rapture was kept well in check by pain.  I had no difficulty in restraining my voice from exclamation, my step from hasty advance.我留住脚步，几乎屏住了呼吸，站立着看他——仔细打量他，而不让他看见，呵，他看不见我。这次突然相遇，巨大的喜说已被痛苦所制约。我毫不费力地压住了我的嗓音，免得喊出声来，控制了我的脚步，免得急乎乎冲上前去。His form was of the same strong and stalwart contour as ever: his port was still erect, his hair was still raven black; nor were his features altered or sunk: not in one year’s space, by any sorrow, could his athletic strength be quelled or his vigorous prime blighted.  But in his countenance I saw a change: that looked desperate and brooding—that reminded me of some wronged and fettered wild beast or bird, dangerous to approach in his sullen woe.  The caged eagle, whose gold-ringed eyes cruelty has extinguished, might look as looked that sightless Samson.他的外形依然象往昔那么健壮，腰背依然笔直、头发依然乌黑。他的面容没有改变或者消瘦。任何哀伤都不可能在一年之内消蚀他强劲的力量，或是摧毁他蓬勃的青春。但在他的面部表情上，我看到了变化。他看上去绝望而深沉——令我想起受到虐待和身陷囹圄的野兽或鸟类，在恼怒痛苦之时，走近它是很危险的。一只笼中的鹰，被残酷地割去了金色的双眼，看上去也许就像这位失明的参孙。And, reader, do you think I feared him in his blind ferocity?—if you do, you little know me.  A soft hope blest with my sorrow that soon I should dare to drop a kiss on that brow of rock, and on those lips so sternly sealed beneath it: but not yet.  I would not accost him yet.读者呀，你们认为，他那么又瞎又凶，我会怕他吗？——要是你认为我怕，那你太不了解我了。伴随着哀痛，我心头浮起了温存的希望，那就是很快就要胆大包天，吻一吻他岩石般的额头和额头下冷峻地封闭的眼睑。但时机未到，我还不想招呼他呢。He descended the one step, and advanced slowly and gropingly towards the grass-plat.  Where was his daring stride now?  Then he paused, as if he knew not which way to turn.  He lifted his hand and opened his eyelids; gazed blank, and with a straining effort, on the sky, and toward the amphitheatre of trees: one saw that all to him was void darkness.  He stretched his right hand (the left arm, the mutilated one, he kept hidden in his bosom); he seemed to wish by touch to gain an idea of what lay around him: he met but vacancy still; for the trees were some yards off where he stood.  He relinquished the endeavour, folded his arms, and stood quiet and mute in the rain, now falling fast on his uncovered head.  At this moment John approached him from some quarter.他下了那一级台阶，一路摸索着慢慢地朝那块草地走去。他原先大步流星的样子如今哪儿去了？随后他停了下来，仿佛不知道该走哪条路。他抬起头来，张开了眼睑，吃力地、空空地凝视着天空和树荫。你看得出来，对他来说一切都是黑洞洞的虚空。他伸出了右手（截了肢的左臂藏在胸前），似乎想通过触摸知道周围的东西。但他碰到的依然是虚空，因为树木离他站着的地方有几码远。他歇手了，抱着胳膊，静默地站在雨中，这会儿下大了的雨打在他无遮无盖的头上。正在这时，约翰不知从哪里出来，走近了他。“Will you take my arm, sir?” he said; “there is a heavy shower coming on: had you not better go in?”“拉住我的胳膊好吗，先生？”他说，“一阵大雨就要下来了，进屋好吗？”“Let me alone,” was the answer.“别打搅我，”他回答。John withdrew without having observed me.  Mr. Rochester now tried to walk about: vainly,—all was too uncertain.  He groped his way back to the house, and, re-entering it, closed the door.约翰走开了，没有瞧见我。这时罗切斯特先生试着想走动走动，却徒劳无功——对周围的一切太没有把握了。他摸回自己的屋子，进去后关了门。I now drew near and knocked: John’s wife opened for me.  “Mary,” I said, “how are you?”这会儿我走上前去，敲起门来。约翰的妻子开了门。“玛丽，”我说，“你好！”She started as if she had seen a ghost: I calmed her.  To her hurried “Is it really you, miss, come at this late hour to this lonely place?”  I answered by taking her hand; and then I followed her into the kitchen, where John now sat by a good fire.  I explained to them, in few words, that I had heard all which had happened since I left Thornfield, and that I was come to see Mr. Rochester.  I asked John to go down to the turn-pike-house, where I had dismissed the chaise, and bring my trunk, which I had left there: and then, while I removed my bonnet and shawl, I questioned Mary as to whether I could be accommodated at the Manor House for the night; and finding that arrangements to that effect, though difficult, would not be impossible, I informed her I should stay.  Just at this moment the parlour-bell rang.她吓了一大跳，仿佛见了一个鬼似的。我让她镇静了下来。她急忙问道：“当真是你吗，小姐，这么晚了还到这么偏僻的地方来？”我握着她的手回答了她。随后跟着她走进了厨房，这会儿约翰正坐在熊熊的炉火边。我三言二语向他们作了解释，告诉他们，我离开桑菲尔德后所发生的一切我都已经听说了。这回是来看望罗切斯特先生的。还请约翰到我打发了马车的大路上去一趟，把留在那儿的箱子去取回来。随后我一面脱去帽子和披肩，一面问玛丽能不能在庄园里过夜。后来我知道虽然不容易安排，但还能办到，便告诉她我打算留宿。正在这时客厅的门铃响了。“When you go in,” said I, “tell your master that a person wishes to speak to him, but do not give my name.”“你进去的时候，”我说，“告诉你主人，有人想同他谈谈。不过别提我的名字。”“I don’t think he will see you,” she answered; “he refuses everybody.”“我想他不会见你，”她回答，“他谁都拒绝。”When she returned, I inquired what he had said.  她回来时，我问他说了什么。“You are to send in your name and your business,” she replied.  She then proceeded to fill a glass with water, and place it on a tray, together with candles.“你得通报姓名，说明来意，”她回答。接着去倒了一杯水，拿了几根蜡烛，都放进托盘。“Is that what he rang for?” I asked.“他就为这个按铃？”我问。“Yes: he always has candles brought in at dark, though he is blind.”“是的，虽然他眼睛看不见，但天黑后总是让人把蜡烛拿进去。”“Give the tray to me; I will carry it in.”“把托盘给我吧，我来拿进去。”I took it from her hand: she pointed me out the parlour door.  The tray shook as I held it; the water spilt from the glass; my heart struck my ribs loud and fast.  Mary opened the door for me, and shut it behind me.我从她手里接过托盘，她向我指了指客厅门。我手中的盘子抖动了一下，水从杯子里溢了出来，我的心砰砰撞击着肋骨。玛丽替我开了门，并随手关上。This parlour looked gloomy: a neglected handful of fire burnt low in the grate; and, leaning over it, with his head supported against the high, old-fashioned mantelpiece, appeared the blind tenant of the room.  His old dog, Pilot, lay on one side, removed out of the way, and coiled up as if afraid of being inadvertently trodden upon.  Pilot pricked up his ears when I came in: then he jumped up with a yelp and a whine, and bounded towards me: he almost knocked the tray from my hands.  I set it on the table; then patted him, and said softly, “Lie down!”  Mr. Rochester turned mechanically to see what the commotion was: but as he saw nothing, he returned and sighed.客厅显得很阴暗。一小堆乏人照看的火在炉中微微燃着。房间里的瞎眼主人，头靠高高的老式壁炉架，俯身向着火炉。他的那条老狗派洛特躺在一边，离得远远的，卷曲着身子，仿佛担心被人不经意踩着似的。我一进门，派洛特便竖起了耳朵，随后汪汪汪，呜呜呜叫了一通，跳将起来，窜向了我，差一点掀翻我手中的托盘。我把盘子放在桌上，拍了拍它，柔声地说：“躺下！”罗切斯特先生机械地转过身来，想看看那骚动是怎么回事，但他什么也没看见，于是便回过头去，叹了口气。“Give me the water, Mary,” he said.“把水给我，玛丽，”他说。I approached him with the now only half-filled glass; Pilot followed me, still excited.我端着现在只剩了半杯的水，走近他，派洛特跟着我，依然兴奋不已。“What is the matter?” he inquired.“怎么回事？”他问。“Down, Pilot!” I again said.  He checked the water on its way to his lips, and seemed to listen: he drank, and put the glass down.  “躺下，派洛特！”我又说。他没有把水端到嘴边就停了下来，似乎在细听。他喝了水，放下杯子。“This is you, Mary, is it not?”“是你吗，玛丽？是不是？”“Mary is in the kitchen,” I answered.“玛丽在厨房里，”我回答。He put out his hand with a quick gesture, but not seeing where I stood, he did not touch me.  “Who is this?  Who is this?” he demanded, trying, as it seemed, to see with those sightless eyes—unavailing and distressing attempt!  “Answer me—speak again!” he ordered, imperiously and aloud.他伸出手，很快挥动了一下，可是看不见我站在那儿，没有碰到我。“谁呀？谁呀？”他问，似乎要用那双失明的眼睛来看——无效而痛苦的尝试！“回答我——再说一遍？”他专横地大声命令道。“Will you have a little more water, sir?  I spilt half of what was in the glass,” I said.“你再要喝一点吗，先生？杯子里的水让我泼掉了一半，”我说。“Who is it?  What is it?  Who speaks?”“谁？什么？谁在说话？”“Pilot knows me, and John and Mary know I am here.  I came only this evening,” I answered.“派洛特认得我，约翰和玛丽知道我在这里，我今天晚上才来，”我回答。“Great God!—what delusion has come over me?  What sweet madness has seized me?”“天哪！——我是在痴心梦想吗？什么甜蜜的疯狂迷住了我？”“No delusion—no madness: your mind, sir, is too strong for delusion, your health too sound for frenzy.”“不是痴心梦想——不是疯狂。先生，你的头脑非常健康，不会陷入痴心梦想；你的身体十分强壮，不会发狂。”“And where is the speaker?  Is it only a voice?  Oh!  I cannot see, but I must feel, or my heart will stop and my brain burst.  Whatever—whoever you are—be perceptible to the touch or I cannot live!”“这位说话人在哪儿？难道只是个声音？呵！我看不见，不过我得摸一摸，不然我的心会停止跳动，我的脑袋要炸裂了。不管是什么——不管你是谁——要让我摸得着，不然我活不下去了！”He groped; I arrested his wandering hand, and prisoned it in both mine.他摸了起来。我抓住了他那只摸来摸去的手，双手紧紧握住它。“Her very fingers!” he cried; “her small, slight fingers!  If so there must be more of her.”“就是她的手指！”他叫道，“她纤细的手指！要是这样，一定还有其他部份。”The muscular hand broke from my custody; my arm was seized, my shoulder—neck—waist—I was entwined and gathered to him.这只强壮的手从我握着的手里挣脱了。我的胳膊被抓住，还有我的肩膀——脖子——腰——我被搂住了，紧贴着他。“Is it Jane?  What is it?  This is her shape—this is her size—”“是简吗？这是什么？她的体形——她的个子——”“And this her voice,” I added.  “She is all here: her heart, too.  God bless you, sir!  I am glad to be so near you again.”“还有她的声音，”我补充说。“她整个儿在这里了，还有她的心。上帝祝福你，先生！我很高兴离你又那么近了。”“Jane Eyre!—Jane Eyre,” was all he said.“简•爱！简•爱！”他光这么叫着。“My dear master,” I answered, “I am Jane Eyre: I have found you out—I am come back to you.”“我亲爱的主人，”我回答，“我是简•爱。我找到了你——我回到你身边来了。”“In truth?—in the flesh?  My living Jane?”“真的？是她本人？我鲜龙活跳的简•爱？”“You touch me, sir,—you hold me, and fast enough: I am not cold like a corpse, nor vacant like air, am I?”“你碰着我，先生——你搂着我，搂得紧紧的。我并不是像尸体一样冷，像空气一般空，是不是？”“My living darling!  These are certainly her limbs, and these her features; but I cannot be so blest, after all my misery.  It is a dream; such dreams as I have had at night when I have clasped her once more to my heart, as I do now; and kissed her, as thus—and felt that she loved me, and trusted that she would not leave me.”“我鲜龙活跳的宝贝！当然这些是她的四肢，那些是她的五官了。不过那番痛苦之后我可没有这福份了。这是一个梦。我夜里常常梦见我又象现在这样，再一次贴心按着她，吻她——觉得她爱我，相信她不会离开我。”“Which I never will, sir, from this day.”“从今天起，先生，我永远不会离开你了。”“Never will, says the vision?  But I always woke and found it an empty mockery; and I was desolate and abandoned—my life dark, lonely, hopeless—my soul athirst and forbidden to drink—my heart famished and never to be fed.  Gentle, soft dream, nestling in my arms now, you will fly, too, as your sisters have all fled before you: but kiss me before you go—embrace me, Jane.”“永远不会，这个影子是这么说的吗？可我一醒来，总发觉原来是白受嘲弄一场空。我凄凉孤独——我的生活黑暗、寂寞，无望——我的灵魂干渴，却不许喝水；我的心儿挨饿，却不给喂食，温存轻柔的梦呀，这会儿你偎依在我的怀里，但你也会飞走的，像早己逃之夭夭的姐妹们一样。可是，吻一下我再走吧——拥抱我一下吧，简。”“There, sir—and there!”’“那儿，先生——还有那儿呢！”I pressed my lips to his once brilliant and now rayless eyes—I swept his hair from his brow, and kissed that too.  He suddenly seemed to arouse himself: the conviction of the reality of all this seized him.我把嘴唇紧贴着当初目光炯炯如今己黯然无光的眼睛上——我拨开了他额上的头发，也吻了一下。他似乎突然醒悟，顿时相信这一切都是事实了。“It is you—is it, Jane?  You are come back to me then?”“是你——是简吗，那么你回到我这儿来啦？”“I am.”“是的。”“And you do not lie dead in some ditch under some stream?  And you are not a pining outcast amongst strangers?”“你没有死在沟里，淹死在溪水底下吗？你没有憔悴不堪，流落在异乡人中间吗？”“没有，先生。我现在完全独立了。”“No, sir!  I am an independent woman now.”“独立！这话怎么讲，简？”“Independent!  What do you mean, Jane?”“我马德拉的叔叔去世了，留给了我五千英镑。”“My uncle in Madeira is dead, and he left me five thousand pounds.”“呵，这可是实在的——是真的！”他喊道：“Ah! this is practical—this is real!” he cried: “I should never dream that.  Besides, there is that peculiar voice of hers, so animating and piquant, as well as soft: it cheers my withered heart; it puts life into it.—What, Janet!  Are you an independent woman?  A rich woman?”“我决不会做这样的梦。而且，还是她独特的嗓子，那么活泼、调皮，又那么温柔，复活了那颗枯竭的心，给了它生命。什么，简，你成了独立的女人了？有钱的女人了？”“If you won’t let me live with you, I can build a house of my own close up to your door, and you may come and sit in my parlour when you want company of an evening.”“很有钱了，先生。要是你不让我同你一起生活，我可以紧靠你的门建造一幢房子，晚上你要人作伴的时候，你可以过来，坐在我的客厅里。”“But as you are rich, Jane, you have now, no doubt, friends who will look after you, and not suffer you to devote yourself to a blind lameter like me?”“可是你有钱了，简，不用说，如今你有朋友会照顾你，不会容许你忠实于一个像我这样的瞎眼瘸子？”“I told you I am independent, sir, as well as rich: I am my own mistress.”“我同你说过我独立了，先生，而且很有钱、我自己可以作主。”“And you will stay with me?”“那你愿意同我呆在一起？”“Certainly—unless you object.  I will be your neighbour, your nurse, your housekeeper.  I find you lonely: I will be your companion—to read to you, to walk with you, to sit with you, to wait on you, to be eyes and hands to you.  Cease to look so melancholy, my dear master; you shall not be left desolate, so long as I live.”“当然——除非你反对。我愿当你的邻居，你的护士，你的管家。我发觉你很孤独，我愿陪伴你——读书给你听，同你一起散步，同你坐在一起，侍候你，成为你的眼睛和双手。别再那么郁郁寡欢了，我的亲爱的主人，只要我还活着，你就不会孤寂了。”He replied not: he seemed serious—abstracted; he sighed; he half-opened his lips as if to speak: he closed them again.  I felt a little embarrassed.  Perhaps I had too rashly over-leaped conventionalities; and he, like St. John, saw impropriety in my inconsiderateness.  I had indeed made my proposal from the idea that he wished and would ask me to be his wife: an expectation, not the less certain because unexpressed, had buoyed me up, that he would claim me at once as his own.  But no hint to that effect escaping him and his countenance becoming more overcast, I suddenly remembered that I might have been all wrong, and was perhaps playing the fool unwittingly; and I began gently to withdraw myself from his arms—but he eagerly snatched me closer.他没有回答，似乎很严肃——散神了。他叹了口气，半张开嘴，仿佛想说话，但又闭上了。我觉得有点儿窘。也许我提议陪伴他，帮助他是自作多情；也许我太轻率了、超越了习俗。而他像圣•约翰一样。从我的粗疏中看到了我说话不得体。其实，我的建议是从这样的思想出发的，就是他希望，也会求我做他的妻子。一种虽然并没有说出口，却十分肯定的期待支持着我，认为他会立刻要求我成为他的人。但是他并没有吐出这一类暗示、他的面部表情越来越阴沉了。我猛地想到，也许自己全搞错了，或许无意中充当了傻瓜。我开始轻轻地从他的怀抱中抽出身来——但是他焦急地把我抓得更紧了。“No—no—Jane; you must not go.  No—I have touched you, heard you, felt the comfort of your presence—the sweetness of your consolation: I cannot give up these joys.  I have little left in myself—I must have you.  The world may laugh—may call me absurd, selfish—but it does not signify.  My very soul demands you: it will be satisfied, or it will take deadly vengeance on its frame.”“不——不——简。你一定不能走。不——我已触摸到你，听你说活，感受到了你在场对我的安慰——你甜蜜的抚慰。我不能放弃这些快乐，因为我身上已所剩无多——我得拥有你。世人会笑话我——会说我荒唐，自私——但这无伤大雅。我的心灵企求你，希望得到满足，不然它会对躯体进行致命的报复。”“Well, sir, I will stay with you: I have said so.”“好吧，先生，我愿意与你呆在一起、我已经这么说了。”“Yes—but you understand one thing by staying with me; and I understand another.  You, perhaps, could make up your mind to be about my hand and chair—to wait on me as a kind little nurse (for you have an affectionate heart and a generous spirit, which prompt you to make sacrifices for those you pity), and that ought to suffice for me no doubt.  I suppose I should now entertain none but fatherly feelings for you: do you think so?  Come—tell me.”“不错——不过，你理解的同我呆在一起是一回事，我理解的是另一回事。也许你可以下决心呆在我身边和椅子旁——像一个好心的小护士那样侍候我（你有一颗热诚的心，慷慨大度的灵魂，让你能为那些你所怜悯的人作出牺牲），对我来说，无疑那应当已经够了。我想我现在只能对你怀着父亲般的感情了，你是这么想的吗？来——告诉我吧。”“I will think what you like, sir: I am content to be only your nurse, if you think it better.”“你愿意我怎么想就怎么想吧，先生。我愿意只做你的护士，如果你认为这样更好的话。”“But you cannot always be my nurse, Janet: you are young—you must marry one day.”“可你不能老是做我的护士，珍妮特。你还年轻——将来你得结婚。”“I don’t care about being married.”“我不在乎结婚不结婚。”“You should care, Janet: if I were what I once was, I would try to make you care—but—a sightless block!”“你应当在乎，珍妮特。如果我还是过去那个样子的话，我会努力使你在乎——可是——一个失去视力的赘物！”He relapsed again into gloom.  I, on the contrary, became more cheerful, and took fresh courage: these last words gave me an insight as to where the difficulty lay; and as it was no difficulty with me, I felt quite relieved from my previous embarrassment.  I resumed a livelier vein of conversation.他又沉下脸来一声不吭了。相反，我倒是更高兴了，一下子来了勇气。最后几个字使我窥见了内中的难处，因为困难不在我这边，所以我完全摆脱了刚才的窘态，更加活跃地同他攀谈了起来。“It is time some one undertook to rehumanise you,” said I, parting his thick and long uncut locks; “for I see you are being metamorphosed into a lion, or something of that sort.  You have a ‘faux air’ of Nebuchadnezzar in the fields about you, that is certain: your hair reminds me of eagles’ feathers; whether your nails are grown like birds’ claws or not, I have not yet noticed.”“现在该是有人让你重新变成人的时候了，”我说着，扒开了他又粗又长没有理过的头发；“因为我知道你正蜕变成一头狮子，或是狮子一类的东西。你“fauxair”田野中的尼布甲尼撒。肯定是这样。你的头发使我想起了鹰的羽毛，不过你的手指甲是不是长得象鸟爪了，我可还没有注意到。”“On this arm, I have neither hand nor nails,” he said, drawing the mutilated limb from his breast, and showing it to me.  “It is a mere stump—a ghastly sight!  Don’t you think so, Jane?”“这只胳膊，既没有手也没有指甲，”他说着，从自己的胸前抽回截了肢的手，伸给我看。“只有那么一截了——看上去真可怕！你说是不是，简？”“It is a pity to see it; and a pity to see your eyes—and the scar of fire on your forehead: and the worst of it is, one is in danger of loving you too well for all this; and making too much of you.”“见了这真为你惋惜，见了你的眼睛也一样——还有额上火烫的伤疤。最糟糕的是，就因为这些，便有让人爱抚过份，照料过头把你惯坏的危险。”“I thought you would be revolted, Jane, when you saw my arm, and my cicatrised visage.”“我想你看到我的胳膊和疤痕累累的面孔时会觉得厌恶的。”“Did you?  Don’t tell me so—lest I should say something disparaging to your judgment.  Now, let me leave you an instant, to make a better fire, and have the hearth swept up.  Can you tell when there is a good fire?”“你这样想的吗？别同我说这话——不然我会对你的判断说出不恭的话来。好吧，让我走开一会儿，把火生得旺些，把壁炉清扫一下。火旺的时候，你能辨得出来吗？”“Yes; with the right eye I see a glow—a ruddy haze.”“能，右眼能看到红光——一阵红红的烟雾。”“And you see the candles?”“你看得见蜡烛光吗？”“Very dimly—each is a luminous cloud.”“非常模糊——每根蜡烛只是一团发亮的雾。”“Can you see me?”“你能看见我吗？”“No, my fairy: but I am only too thankful to hear and feel you.”“不行，我的天使。能够听见你，摸到你已经是够幸运了。”“When do you take supper?”“你什么时候吃晚饭？”“I never take supper.”“我从来不吃晚饭。”“But you shall have some to-night.  I am hungry: so are you, I daresay, only you forget.”“不过今晚你得吃一点。我饿了，我想你也一样，不过是忘了罢了。”Summoning Mary, I soon had the room in more cheerful order: I prepared him, likewise, a comfortable repast.  My spirits were excited, and with pleasure and ease I talked to him during supper, and for a long time after.  There was no harassing restraint, no repressing of glee and vivacity with him; for with him I was at perfect ease, because I knew I suited him; all I said or did seemed either to console or revive him.  Delightful consciousness!  It brought to life and light my whole nature: in his presence I thoroughly lived; and he lived in mine.  Blind as he was, smiles played over his face, joy dawned on his forehead: his lineaments softened and warmed.我把玛丽叫了进来，让她很快把房间收拾得更加令人振奋，同时也为他准备了一顿舒心的晚宴。我的心情也激动起来，晚餐时及晚餐后同他愉快而自在地谈了很久。跟他在一起，不存在那种折磨人的自我克制，不需要把欢快活跃的情绪压下去。同他相处，我无拘无束，因为我知道自己与他很相称。我的一切言行似乎都抚慰着他，给他以新的生命。多么愉快的感觉呀！它唤醒了我全部天性，使它灼灼生辉。在他面前我才尽情地生活着，同样，在我面前，他才尽情地生活着。尽管他瞎了，他脸上还是浮起了笑容，额头映出了欢快，面部表情温柔而激动。After supper, he began to ask me many questions, of where I had been, what I had been doing, how I had found him out; but I gave him only very partial replies: it was too late to enter into particulars that night.  Besides, I wished to touch no deep-thrilling chord—to open no fresh well of emotion in his heart: my sole present aim was to cheer him.  Cheered, as I have said, he was: and yet but by fits.  If a moment’s silence broke the conversation, he would turn restless, touch me, then say, “Jane.”晚饭后他开始问我很多问题，我上哪儿去了呀，在干些什么呀，怎么找到他的呀。不过我回答得很简略，那夜已经太晚，无法细谈了。此外，我不想去拨动那剧烈震颤的心弦——不想在他的心田开掘情感的新泉。我眼下的唯一目的是使他高兴。而如我所说他已很高兴，但反复无常。要是说话间沉默了一会儿，他会坐立不安，碰碰我，随后说，“简。”“You are altogether a human being, Jane?  You are certain of that?”“你是十十足足的人吗，简？你肯定是这样的吗？”“I conscientiously believe so, Mr. Rochester.”“我诚恳地相信是这样。罗切斯特先生。”“Yet how, on this dark and doleful evening, could you so suddenly rise on my lone hearth?  I stretched my hand to take a glass of water from a hireling, and it was given me by you: I asked a question, expecting John’s wife to answer me, and your voice spoke at my ear.”“可是，在这样一个悲哀的黑夜，你怎么会突然出现在我冷落的炉边呢？我伸手从一个佣工那儿取一杯水，结果却是你端上来的。我问了个问题，期待着约翰的妻子回答我，我的耳边却响起了你的声音。”“Because I had come in, in Mary’s stead, with the tray.”“因为我替玛丽端着盘子进来了。”“And there is enchantment in the very hour I am now spending with you.  Who can tell what a dark, dreary, hopeless life I have dragged on for months past?  Doing nothing, expecting nothing; merging night in day; feeling but the sensation of cold when I let the fire go out, of hunger when I forgot to eat: and then a ceaseless sorrow, and, at times, a very delirium of desire to behold my Jane again.  Yes: for her restoration I longed, far more than for that of my lost sight.  How can it be that Jane is with me, and says she loves me?  Will she not depart as suddenly as she came?  To-morrow, I fear I shall find her no more.”“我现在与你一起度过的时刻，让人心驰神迷。谁能料到几个月来我挨过了黑暗、凄凉、无望的生活？什么也不干，什么也不盼，白天和黑夜不分。炉火熄了便感到冷；忘记吃饭便觉得饿。随后是无穷无尽的哀伤，有时就痴心妄想，希望再见见我的简。不错，我渴望再得到她，远胜过渴望恢复失去的视力。简跟我呆着，还说爱我，这怎么可能呢？她会不会突然地来，突然地走呢？我担心明天我再也看不到她了。”A commonplace, practical reply, out of the train of his own disturbed ideas, was, I was sure, the best and most reassuring for him in this frame of mind.  I passed my finger over his eyebrows, and remarked that they were scorched, and that I would apply something which would make them grow as broad and black as ever.在他这样的心境中，给他一个普普通通、实实在在的回答，同他烦乱的思绪毫无联系，是再好不过了，也最能让他放下心来。我用手指摸了摸他的眉毛，并说眉毛已被烧焦了，我可以敷上点什么，使它长得跟以往的一样粗、一样黑。“Where is the use of doing me good in any way, beneficent spirit, when, at some fatal moment, you will again desert me—passing like a shadow, whither and how to me unknown, and for me remaining afterwards undiscoverable?“随你怎么做好事对我有什么用处呢，慈善的精灵？反正在关键时刻，你又会抛弃我——像影子一般消失，上哪儿去而又怎么去，我一无所知，而且从此之后，我就再也找不到你了。”“Have you a pocket-comb about you, sir?”“你身边有小梳子吗，先生？”“What for, Jane?”“干嘛，简？”“Just to comb out this shaggy black mane.  I find you rather alarming, when I examine you close at hand: you talk of my being a fairy, but I am sure, you are more like a brownie.”“把乱蓬蓬的黑色鬃毛梳理一下。我凑近你细细打量时，发现你有些可怕。你说我是个精灵，而我相信，你更像一个棕仙。”“Am I hideous, Jane?”“我可怕吗，简？”“Very, sir: you always were, you know.”“很可怕，先生。你知道，你向来如此。”“Humph!  The wickedness has not been taken out of you, wherever you have sojourned.”“哼！不管你上哪儿呆过一阵子，你还是改不掉那淘气的样子。”“Yet I have been with good people; far better than you: a hundred times better people; possessed of ideas and views you never entertained in your life: quite more refined and exalted.”“可是我同很好的人呆过，比你好得多，要好一百倍。这些人的想法和见解，你平生从来没有过。他们比你更文雅，更高尚。”“Who the deuce have you been with?”“你究竟跟谁呆过？”“If you twist in that way you will make me pull the hair out of your head; and then I think you will cease to entertain doubts of my substantiality.”“要是你那么扭动的话，你会弄得我把你的头发拔下来，那样我想你再也不会怀疑我是实实在在的人了吧。”“Who have you been with, Jane?”“你跟谁呆过一阵子？”“You shall not get it out of me to-night, sir; you must wait till to-morrow; to leave my tale half told, will, you know, be a sort of security that I shall appear at your breakfast table to finish it.  By the bye, I must mind not to rise on your hearth with only a glass of water then: I must bring an egg at the least, to say nothing of fried ham.”“今天晚上别想从我嘴里把话掏出来了，先生。你得等到明天。你知道，我把故事只讲一半，会保证我出现在你的早餐桌旁把其余的讲完。）顺便说一句，我得留意别只端一杯水来到你火炉边，至少得端进一个蛋，不用讲油煎火腿了。”“You mocking changeling—fairy-born and human-bred!  You make me feel as I have not felt these twelve months.  If Saul could have had you for his David, the evil spirit would have been exorcised without the aid of the harp.”“你这个爱嘲弄人的丑仙童—一算你是仙女生，凡人养的！你让我尝到了一年来从未有过的滋味。要是扫罗能让你当他的大卫，那就不需要弹琴就能把恶魔赶走了。”“There, sir, you are redd up and made decent.  Now I’ll leave you: I have been travelling these last three days, and I believe I am tired.  Good night.”“瞧，先生，可把你收拾得整整齐齐，象象样样了。这会儿我得离开你了。最近三天我一直在旅途奔波，想来也够累的。晚安！”“Just one word, Jane: were there only ladies in the house where you have been?”“就说一句话，简，你前一阵子呆的地方光有女士吗？”I laughed and made my escape, still laughing as I ran upstairs.  “A good idea!”  I thought with glee.  “I see I have the means of fretting him out of his melancholy for some time to come.”我大笑着抽身走掉了，跑上楼梯还笑个不停。“好主意！”我快活地想道。“我看以后的日子我有办法让他急得忘掉忧郁了。”Very early the next morning I heard him up and astir, wandering from one room to another.  As soon as Mary came down I heard the question: “Is Miss Eyre here?”  Then: “Which room did you put her into?  Was it dry?  Is she up?  Go and ask if she wants anything; and when she will come down.”第二天一早，我听见他起来走动了，从一个房间摸到另一个房间。玛丽一下楼，我就听见他问：“爱小姐在这儿吗？”接着又问：“你把她安排在哪一间？里面干燥吗？她起来了吗？去问问是不是需要什么，什么时候下来？”I came down as soon as I thought there was a prospect of breakfast.  Entering the room very softly, I had a view of him before he discovered my presence.  It was mournful, indeed, to witness the subjugation of that vigorous spirit to a corporeal infirmity.  He sat in his chair—still, but not at rest: expectant evidently; the lines of now habitual sadness marking his strong features.  His countenance reminded one of a lamp quenched, waiting to be re-lit—and alas! it was not himself that could now kindle the lustre of animated expression: he was dependent on another for that office!  I had meant to be gay and careless, but the powerlessness of the strong man touched my heart to the quick: still I accosted him with what vivacity I could.我一想到还有一顿早餐，便下楼去了。我轻手轻脚进了房间，他还没有发现我，我就已瞧见他了。说实在目睹那么生龙活虎的人沦为一个恹恹的弱者，真让人心酸。他坐在椅子上——虽然一动不动，却并不安分，显然在企盼着。如今，习惯性的愁容，己镌刻在他富有特色的脸庞上。他的面容令人想起一盏熄灭了的灯，等待着再度点亮——唉！现在他自己已无力恢复生气勃勃、光彩照人的表情了，不得不依赖他人来完成。我本想显得高高兴兴、无忧无虑，但是这个强者那么无能为力的样子，使我心碎了。不过我还是尽可能轻松愉快地跟他打了招呼：“It is a bright, sunny morning, sir,” I said.  “The rain is over and gone, and there is a tender shining after it: you shall have a walk soon.”“是个明亮晴朗的早晨呢，先生，”我说。“雨过天晴，你很快可以去走走了。”I had wakened the glow: his features beamed.我已唤醒了那道亮光，他顿时容光焕发了。“Oh, you are indeed there, my skylark!  Come to me.  You are not gone: not vanished?  I heard one of your kind an hour ago, singing high over the wood: but its song had no music for me, any more than the rising sun had rays.  All the melody on earth is concentrated in my Jane’s tongue to my ear (I am glad it is not naturally a silent one): all the sunshine I can feel is in her presence.”“呵，你真的还在，我的云雀！上我这儿来。你没有走，没有飞得无影无踪呀？一小时之前，我听见你的一个同类在高高的树林里歌唱，可是对我来说，它的歌声没有音乐，就像初升的太阳没有光芒。凡我能听到的世间美妙的音乐，都集中在简的舌头上，凡我能感开到的阳光，都全聚在她身上。”The water stood in my eyes to hear this avowal of his dependence; just as if a royal eagle, chained to a perch, should be forced to entreat a sparrow to become its purveyor.  But I would not be lachrymose: I dashed off the salt drops, and busied myself with preparing breakfast.听完他表示对别人的依赖，我不禁热泪盈眶。他仿佛是被链条锁在栖木上的一头巨鹰，竟不得不企求一只麻雀为它觅食。不过，我不喜欢哭哭啼啼，抹掉带咸味的眼泪，便忙着去准备早餐了。Most of the morning was spent in the open air.  I led him out of the wet and wild wood into some cheerful fields: I described to him how brilliantly green they were; how the flowers and hedges looked refreshed; how sparklingly blue was the sky.  I sought a seat for him in a hidden and lovely spot, a dry stump of a tree; nor did I refuse to let him, when seated, place me on his knee.  Why should I, when both he and I were happier near than apart?  Pilot lay beside us: all was quiet.  He broke out suddenly while clasping me in his arms—大半个早上是在户外度过的。我领着他走出潮湿荒凉的林子，到了令人心旷怡艳的田野。我向他描绘田野多么苍翠耀眼，花朵和树篱多么生气盎然，天空又多么湛蓝闪亮。我在一个隐蔽可爱的地方，替他找了个座位，那是一个干枯的树桩。坐定以后，我没有拒绝他把我放到他膝头上。既然他和我都觉得紧挨着比分开更愉快，那我又何必要拒绝呢？派洛特躺在我们旁边，四周一片寂静。他正把我紧紧地楼在怀里时突然嚷道：“Cruel, cruel deserter!  Oh, Jane, what did I feel when I discovered you had fled from Thornfield, and when I could nowhere find you; and, after examining your apartment, ascertained that you had taken no money, nor anything which could serve as an equivalent!  A pearl necklace I had given you lay untouched in its little casket; your trunks were left corded and locked as they had been prepared for the bridal tour.  What could my darling do, I asked, left destitute and penniless?  And what did she do?  Let me hear now.”“狠心呀，狠心的逃跑者！呵，简，我发现你出走桑菲尔德，而又到处找不着你，细看了你的房间，断定你没有带钱，或者当钱派用处的东西，我心里是多么难受呀！我送你的一根珍珠项链，原封不动地留在小盒子里。你的箱子捆好了上了锁，像原先准备结婚旅行时一样。我自问，我的宝贝成了穷光蛋，身边一个子儿也没有，她该怎么办呢？她干了些什么呀？现在讲给我听听吧。”Thus urged, I began the narrative of my experience for the last year.  I softened considerably what related to the three days of wandering and starvation, because to have told him all would have been to inflict unnecessary pain: the little I did say lacerated his faithful heart deeper than I wished.于是在他的敦促之下，我开始叙述去年的经历了。我大大淡化了三天的流浪和挨饿的情景，因为把什么都告诉他，只会增加他不必要的痛苦。但是我确实告诉他的一丁点儿，也撕碎了他那颗忠实的心，其严重程度超出了我的预料。I should not have left him thus, he said, without any means of making my way: I should have told him my intention.  I should have confided in him: he would never have forced me to be his mistress.  Violent as he had seemed in his despair, he, in truth, loved me far too well and too tenderly to constitute himself my tyrant: he would have given me half his fortune, without demanding so much as a kiss in return, rather than I should have flung myself friendless on the wide world.  I had endured, he was certain, more than I had confessed to him.他说，我不应该两手空空地离开他，我应该把我的想法跟他说说。我应当同他推心置腹，他决不会强迫我做他的情妇。尽管他绝望时性情暴烈，但事实上，他爱我至深至亲，绝不会变成我的暴君。与其让我把自己举目无亲地抛向茫茫人世，他宁愿送我一半财产，而连吻一下作为回报的要求都不提。他确信，我所忍受的比我说给他听的要严重得多。“Well, whatever my sufferings had been, they were very short,” I answered: and then I proceeded to tell him how I had been received at Moor House; how I had obtained the office of schoolmistress, &c.  The accession of fortune, the discovery of my relations, followed in due order.  Of course, St. John Rivers’ name came in frequently in the progress of my tale.  When I had done, that name was immediately taken up.“嗯，我受的苦再多，时间都不长。”我回答。随后我告诉他如何被接纳进沼泽居；如何得到教师的职位，以及获得财产，发现亲戚等，按时间顺序，——叙述。当然随着故事的进展，圣•约翰•里弗斯的名字频频出现。我一讲完自己的经历，这个名字便立即提出来了。“This St. John, then, is your cousin?”“那么，这位圣•约翰是你的表兄了？”“Yes.”“是的，”“You have spoken of him often: do you like him?”“你常常提到他，你喜欢他吗？”“He was a very good man, sir; I could not help liking him.”“他是个大好人，先生，我不能不喜欢他。”“A good man.  Does that mean a respectable well-conducted man of fifty?  Or what does it mean?”“一个好人？那意思是不是一个体面而品行好的五十岁男人？不然那是什么意思？”“St John was only twenty-nine, sir.”“圣•约翰只有二十九岁，先生。”“‘Jeune encore,’ as the French say.  Is he a person of low stature, phlegmatic, and plain.  A person whose goodness consists rather in his guiltlessness of vice, than in his prowess in virtue.”“Jeuneencore，”就像法国人说的。“他是个矮小、冷淡、平庸的人吗？是不是那种长处在于没有过错，而不是德行出众的人？”“He is untiringly active.  Great and exalted deeds are what he lives to perform.”“他十分活跃，不知疲倦，他活着就是要成就伟大崇高的事业。”“But his brain?  That is probably rather soft?  He means well: but you shrug your shoulders to hear him talk?”“但他的头脑呢？大概比较软弱吧？他本意很好，但听他谈话你会耸肩。”“He talks little, sir: what he does say is ever to the point.  His brain is first-rate, I should think not impressible, but vigorous.”“他说话不多，先生。但一开口总是一语中的。我想他的头脑是一流的，不易打动，却十分活跃。”“Is he an able man, then?”“那么他很能干了？”“Truly able.”“确实很能干。”“A thoroughly educated man?”“一个受过良好教育的人？”“St. John is an accomplished and profound scholar.”“圣•约翰是一个造诣很深、学识渊博的学者。”“His manners, I think, you said are not to your taste?—priggish and parsonic?”“他的风度，我想你说过，不合你的口味？”“——一正经，一付牧师腔调。”“I never mentioned his manners; but, unless I had a very bad taste, they must suit it; they are polished, calm, and gentlemanlike.”“我从来没有提起过他的风度。但除非我的口味很差，不然是很合意的。他的风度优雅、沉着，一付绅士派头，”“His appearance,—I forget what description you gave of his appearance;—a sort of raw curate, half strangled with his white neckcloth, and stilted up on his thick-soled high-lows, eh?”“他的外表——我忘了你是怎么样描述他的外表的了——那种没有经验的副牧师，扎着白领巾，弄得气都透不过来；穿着厚底高帮靴，顶得像踏高跷似的，是吧？”“St. John dresses well.  He is a handsome man: tall, fair, with blue eyes, and a Grecian profile.”“圣•约翰衣冠楚楚，是个漂亮的男子，高个子，白皮肤，蓝眼晴，鼻梁笔挺。”(Aside.)  “Damn him!”—(To me.)  “Did you like him, Jane?”（旁白）“见他的鬼！——（转向我）“你喜欢他吗，简？”“Yes, Mr. Rochester, I liked him: but you asked me that before.”“是的，罗切斯特先生，我喜欢他。不过你以前问过我了。”I perceived, of course, the drift of my interlocutor.  Jealousy had got hold of him: she stung him; but the sting was salutary: it gave him respite from the gnawing fang of melancholy.  I would not, therefore, immediately charm the snake.当然，我觉察出了说话人的用意。妒嫉已经攫住了他，刺痛着他。这是有益于身心的，让他暂时免受忧郁的咬啮。因此我不想立刻降服嫉妒这条毒蛇。“Perhaps you would rather not sit any longer on my knee, Miss Eyre?” was the next somewhat unexpected observation.“也许你不愿意在我膝头上坐下去了，爱小姐？”接着便是这有些出乎意料的话。“Why not, Mr. Rochester?”“为什么不愿意呢，罗切斯特先生，”“The picture you have just drawn is suggestive of a rather too overwhelming contrast.  Your words have delineated very prettily a graceful Apollo: he is present to your imagination,—tall, fair, blue-eyed, and with a Grecian profile.  Your eyes dwell on a Vulcan,—a real blacksmith, brown, broad-shouldered: and blind and lame into the bargain.”“你刚才所描绘的图画，暗视了一种过份强烈的对比。你的话已经巧妙地勾勒出了一个漂亮的阿波罗。他出现在你的想象之中，——‘高个子，白皮肤，蓝眼睛，笔挺的鼻梁。’而你眼下看到的是—个火神——一个道地的铁匠，褐色的皮肤，宽阔的肩膀，瞎了眼睛，又瘸了腿。”“I never thought of it, before; but you certainly are rather like Vulcan, sir.”“我以前可从来没有想到过这点，不过你确实象个火神，先生？”“Well, you can leave me, ma’am: but before you go” (and he retained me by a firmer grasp than ever), “you will be pleased just to answer me a question or two.”  He paused.“好吧——你可以离开我了，小姐。但你走之前（他把我搂得更紧了），请你回答我一两个问题，”他顿了一下。“What questions, Mr. Rochester?”“什么问题，罗切斯特先生？”Then followed this cross-examination.接踵而来的便是这番盘问：“St. John made you schoolmistress of Morton before he knew you were his cousin?”“圣•约翰还不知道你是他表妹，就让你做莫尔顿学校的教师？”“Yes.”“是的。”“You would often see him?  He would visit the school sometimes?”“你常常见到他吗？他有时候来学校看看吗？”“Daily.”“每天如此。”“He would approve of your plans, Jane?  I know they would be clever, for you are a talented creature!”“他赞同你的计划吗，简？——我知道这些计划很巧妙、因为你是一个有才干的家伙。”“He approved of them—yes.”“是的，——他赞同了。”“He would discover many things in you he could not have expected to find?  Some of your accomplishments are not ordinary.”“他会在你身上发现很多预料不到的东西，是吗？你身上的某些才艺不同寻常。”“I don’t know about that.”“这我不知道。”“You had a little cottage near the school, you say: did he ever come there to see you?”“你说你的小屋靠近学校，他来看你过吗？”“Now and then?”“不时来。”“Of an evening?”“晚上来吗？”“Once or twice.”“来过一两次。”A pause.他停顿了一下。“How long did you reside with him and his sisters after the cousinship was discovered?”“你们彼此的表兄妹关系发现后，你同他和他妹妹们又住了多久？”“Five months.”“五个月。”“Did Rivers spend much time with the ladies of his family?”“里弗斯同家里的女士们在一起的时候很多吗？”“Yes; the back parlour was both his study and ours: he sat near the window, and we by the table.”“是的，后客厅既是他的书房，也是我们的书房。他坐在窗边，我们坐在桌旁。”“Did he study much?”“他书读得很多吗？”“A good deal.”“很多。”“What?”“读什么？”“Hindostanee.”“印度斯坦语。”“And what did you do meantime?”“那时候你干什么呢？”“I learnt German, at first.”“起初学德语。”“Did he teach you?”“他教你吗？”“He did not understand German.”“他不懂德语。”“Did he teach you nothing?”“他什么也没有教你吗？”“A little Hindostanee.”“教了一点儿印度斯坦语。”“Rivers taught you Hindostanee?”“里弗斯教你印度斯坦语？”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“And his sisters also?”“也教他妹妹们吗？”“No.”“没有。”“Only you?”“光教你？”“Only me.”“光教我。”“Did you ask to learn?”“是你要求他教的吗？”“No.”“没有。”“He wished to teach you?”“他希望教你？”“Yes.”“是的。”A second pause.他又停顿了一下。“Why did he wish it?  Of what use could Hindostanee be to you?”“他为什么希望教你？印度斯坦语对你会有什么用处？”“He intended me to go with him to India.”“他要我同他一起去印度。”“Ah! here I reach the root of the matter.  He wanted you to marry him?”“呵！这下我触到要害了。他要你嫁给他吗？”“He asked me to marry him.”“他求我嫁给他。”“That is a fiction—an impudent invention to vex me.”“那是虚构的——胡编乱造来气气我。”“I beg your pardon, it is the literal truth: he asked me more than once, and was as stiff about urging his point as ever you could be.”“请你原谅，这是千真万确的事实。他不止一次地求过我，而且在这点上像你一样寸步不让。”“Miss Eyre, I repeat it, you can leave me.  How often am I to say the same thing?  Why do you remain pertinaciously perched on my knee, when I have given you notice to quit?”“爱小姐，我再说一遍，你可以离开我了。这句话我说过多少次了？我已经通知你可以走了，为什么硬赖在我膝头上？”“Because I am comfortable there.”“因为在这儿很舒服。”“No, Jane, you are not comfortable there, because your heart is not with me: it is with this cousin—this St. John.  Oh, till this moment, I thought my little Jane was all mine!  I had a belief she loved me even when she left me: that was an atom of sweet in much bitter.  Long as we have been parted, hot tears as I have wept over our separation, I never thought that while I was mourning her, she was loving another!  But it is useless grieving.  Jane, leave me: go and marry Rivers.”“不，简，你在这儿不舒服，因为你的心不在我这里，而在你的这位表兄，圣•约翰那里了，呵，在这之前，我以为我的小简全属于我的，相信她就是离开我了也还是爱我的，这成了无尽的苦涩中的一丝甜味，尽管我们别了很久，尽管我因为别离而热泪涟涟，我从来没有料到，我为她悲悲泣泣的时候，她却爱着另外一个人！不过，心里难过也毫无用处，简，走吧，去嫁给里弗斯吧！”“Shake me off, then, sir,—push me away, for I’ll not leave you of my own accord.”“那么，甩掉我吧，先生，一把我推开，因为我可不愿意自己离开你。”“Jane, I ever like your tone of voice: it still renews hope, it sounds so truthful.  When I hear it, it carries me back a year.  I forget that you have formed a new tie.  But I am not a fool—go—”“简，我一直喜欢你说话的声调，它仍然唤起新的希望，它听起来又那么真诚。我一听到它，便又回到了一年之前。我忘了你结识了新的关系。不过我不是傻瓜——走吧——。”“Where must I go, sir?”“我得上哪儿去呢，先生。”“Your own way—with the husband you have chosen.”“随你自己便吧——上你看中的丈夫那儿去。”“Who is that?”“谁呀？”“You know—this St. John Rivers.”“你知道——这个圣•约翰•里弗斯。”“He is not my husband, nor ever will be.  He does not love me: I do not love him.  He loves (as he can love, and that is not as you love) a beautiful young lady called Rosamond.  He wanted to marry me only because he thought I should make a suitable missionary’s wife, which she would not have done.  He is good and great, but severe; and, for me, cold as an iceberg.  He is not like you, sir: I am not happy at his side, nor near him, nor with him.  He has no indulgence for me—no fondness.  He sees nothing attractive in me; not even youth—only a few useful mental points.—Then I must leave you, sir, to go to him?”“他不是我丈夫，也永远不会是，他不爱我，我也不爱他。他爱（他可以爱，跟你的爱不同）一个名叫罗莎蒙德的年轻漂亮小姐。他要娶我只是由于以为我配当一个传教士的妻子，其实我是不行的。他不错，也很了不起，但十分冷峻，对我来说同冰山一般冷。他跟你不一样，先生。在他身边，接近他，或者同他在一起，我都不会愉快。他没有迷恋我——没有溺爱我。在我身上，他看不到吸引人的地方，连青春都看不到——他所看到的只不过心里上的几个有用之处罢了。那么，先生，我得离开你上他那儿去了？”I shuddered involuntarily, and clung instinctively closer to my blind but beloved master.  He smiled.我不由自主地哆嗦了一下，本能地把我亲爱的瞎眼主人搂得更紧了。他微微一笑。“What, Jane!  Is this true?  Is such really the state of matters between you and Rivers?”“什么，简！这是真的吗？这真是你与里弗斯之间的情况吗？”“Absolutely, sir!  Oh, you need not be jealous!  I wanted to tease you a little to make you less sad: I thought anger would be better than grief.  But if you wish me to love you, could you but see how much I do love you, you would be proud and content.  All my heart is yours, sir: it belongs to you; and with you it would remain, were fate to exile the rest of me from your presence for ever.”“绝对如此，先生。呵，你不必嫉妒！我想逗你一下让你少伤心些。我认为愤怒比忧伤要好。不过要是你希望我爱你，你就只要瞧一瞧我确实多么爱你，你就会自豪和满足了。我的整个心儿是你的，先生，它属于你，即使命运让我身体的其余部份永远同你分离，我的心也会依然跟你在一起。”Again, as he kissed me, painful thoughts darkened his aspect.他吻我的时候，痛苦的想法使他的脸又变得阴沉了。“My seared vision!  My crippled strength!” he murmured regretfully.“我烧毁了的视力！我伤残了的体力！”他遗憾地咕哝着。I caressed, in order to soothe him.  I knew of what he was thinking, and wanted to speak for him, but dared not.  As he turned aside his face a minute, I saw a tear slide from under the sealed eyelid, and trickle down the manly cheek.  My heart swelled.我抚摸着他给他以安慰。我知道他心里想些什么，并想替他说出来，但我又不敢。他的脸转开的一刹那，我看到一滴眼泪从封闭着的眼睑滑下来，流到了富有男子气的脸颊上。我的心膨胀起来了。“I am no better than the old lightning-struck chestnut-tree in Thornfield orchard,” he remarked ere long.  “And what right would that ruin have to bid a budding woodbine cover its decay with freshness?”“我并不比桑菲尔德果园那棵遭雷击的老栗子树好多少，”没有过多久他说。“那些残枝，有什么权利吩咐一棵爆出新芽的忍冬花以自己的鲜艳来掩盖它的腐朽呢？”“You are no ruin, sir—no lightning-struck tree: you are green and vigorous.  Plants will grow about your roots, whether you ask them or not, because they take delight in your bountiful shadow; and as they grow they will lean towards you, and wind round you, because your strength offers them so safe a prop.”“你不是残枝，先生——不是遭雷击的树。你碧绿而茁壮。不管你求不求，花草会在你根子周围长出来，因为它们乐于躲在你慷慨的树荫下。长大了它们会偎依着你，缠绕着你，因为你的力量给了它们可靠的支撑。”Again he smiled: I gave him comfort.他再次笑了起来，我又给了他安慰。“You speak of friends, Jane?” he asked.“你说的是朋友吗，简？”他问。“Yes, of friends,” I answered rather hesitatingly: for I knew I meant more than friends, but could not tell what other word to employ.  He helped me.“是的，是朋友，”我迟迟疑疑地面答。我知道我的意思超出了朋友，但无法判断要用什么字。他帮了我忙。“Ah!  Jane.  But I want a wife.”“呵？简。可是我需要一个妻子。”“Do you, sir?”“是吗，先生？”“Yes: is it news to you?”“是的，对你来说是桩新闻吗？”“Of course: you said nothing about it before.”“当然，先前你对此什么也没说。”“Is it unwelcome news?”“是一桩不受欢迎的新闻？”“That depends on circumstances, sir—on your choice.”“那就要看情况了，先生——要看你的选择。”“Which you shall make for me, Jane.  I will abide by your decision.”“你替我选择吧，简。我会遵从你的决定。”“Choose then, sir—her who loves you best.”“先生，那就挑选最爱你的人。”“I will at least choose—her I love best.  Jane, will you marry me?”“我至少会选择我最爱的人，简。你肯嫁给我吗？”“Yes, sir.”“肯的，先生。”“A poor blind man, whom you will have to lead about by the hand?”“一个可怜的瞎子，你得牵着手领他走的人。”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“A crippled man, twenty years older than you, whom you will have to wait on?”“一个比你大二十岁的瘸子，你得侍候他的人。”“Yes, sir.”“是的，先生。”“Truly, Jane?”“当真，简？”“Most truly, sir.”“完全当真，先生。”“Oh! my darling!  God bless you and reward you!”“呵，我的宝贝？愿上帝祝福你，报答你！”“Mr. Rochester, if ever I did a good deed in my life—if ever I thought a good thought—if ever I prayed a sincere and blameless prayer—if ever I wished a righteous wish,—I am rewarded now.  To be your wife is, for me, to be as happy as I can be on earth.”“罗切斯特先生，如果我平生做过一件好事——如果我有过一个好的想法——如果我做过一个真诚而没有过错的祷告——如果我曾有过一个正当的心愿——那么现在我得到了酬报。对我来说，做你的妻子是世上最愉快的事了。”“Because you delight in sacrifice.”“因为你乐意作出牺牲。”“Sacrifice!  What do I sacrifice?  Famine for food, expectation for content.  To be privileged to put my arms round what I value—to press my lips to what I love—to repose on what I trust: is that to make a sacrifice?  If so, then certainly I delight in sacrifice.”“牺牲！我牺牲了什么啦？牺牲饥饿而得到食品，牺牲期待而得到满足。享受特权搂抱我珍重的人——亲吻我热爱的人——寄希望于我信赖的人。那能叫牺牲吗？如果说这是牺牲，那当然乐于作出牺牲了。”“And to bear with my infirmities, Jane: to overlook my deficiencies.”“还要忍受我的体弱，简，无视我的缺陷。”“Which are none, sir, to me.  I love you better now, when I can really be useful to you, than I did in your state of proud independence, when you disdained every part but that of the giver and protector.”“我毫不在乎，先生。现在我确实对你有所帮助了，所以比起当初你能自豪地独立自主，除了施主与保护人，把什么都不放在眼里时，要更爱你了。”“Hitherto I have hated to be helped—to be led: henceforth, I feel I shall hate it no more.  I did not like to put my hand into a hireling’s, but it is pleasant to feel it circled by Jane’s little fingers.  I preferred utter loneliness to the constant attendance of servants; but Jane’s soft ministry will be a perpetual joy.  Jane suits me: do I suit her?”“我向来讨厌要人帮助——要人领着，但从今起我觉得我不再讨厌了。我不喜欢把手放在雇工的手里，但让简的小小的指头挽着，却很愉快。我不喜欢佣人不停地服侍我，而喜欢绝对孤独。但是简温柔体贴的照应却永远是一种享受。简适合我，而我适合她吗？”“To the finest fibre of my nature, sir.”“你与我的天性丝丝入扣。”“The case being so, we have nothing in the world to wait for: we must be married instantly.”“既然如此，就根本没有什么好等的了，我们得马上结婚。”He looked and spoke with eagerness: his old impetuosity was rising.他的神态和说话都很急切，他焦躁的老脾气又发作了。“We must become one flesh without any delay, Jane: there is but the licence to get—then we marry.”“我们必须毫不迟疑地化为一体了，简。只剩下把证书拿到手——随后我们就结婚——”“Mr. Rochester, I have just discovered the sun is far declined from its meridian, and Pilot is actually gone home to his dinner.  Let me look at your watch.”“罗切斯特先生，我刚发现，日色西斜，太阳早过了子午线。派洛特实际上已经回家去吃饭了，让我看看你的手表。”“Fasten it into your girdle, Janet, and keep it henceforward: I have no use for it.”“把它别在你腰带上吧，珍妮特，今后你就留着，反正我用不上。”“It is nearly four o’clock in the afternoon, sir.  Don’t you feel hungry?”“差不多下午四点了，先生。你不感到饿吗？”“The third day from this must be our wedding-day, Jane.  Never mind fine clothes and jewels, now: all that is not worth a fillip.”“从今天算起第三天，该是我们举行婚礼的日子了，简。现在，别去管豪华衣装和金银首饰了，这些东西都一钱不值。”“The sun has dried up all the rain-drops, sir.  The breeze is still: it is quite hot.”“太阳已经晒干了雨露，先生。微风止了，气候很热。”“Do you know, Jane, I have your little pearl necklace at this moment fastened round my bronze scrag under my cravat?  I have worn it since the day I lost my only treasure, as a memento of her.”“你知道吗，简，此刻在领带下面青铜色的脖子上，我戴着你小小的珍珠项链。自从失去仅有的宝贝那天起，我就戴上它了，作为对她的怀念。”“We will go home through the wood: that will be the shadiest way.”“我们穿过林子回家吧，这条路最荫凉。”He pursued his own thoughts without heeding me.他顺着自己的思路去想，没有理会我。“Jane! you think me, I daresay, an irreligious dog: but my heart swells with gratitude to the beneficent God of this earth just now.  He sees not as man sees, but far clearer: judges not as man judges, but far more wisely.  I did wrong: I would have sullied my innocent flower—breathed guilt on its purity: the Omnipotent snatched it from me.  I, in my stiff-necked rebellion, almost cursed the dispensation: instead of bending to the decree, I defied it.  Divine justice pursued its course; disasters came thick on me: I was forced to pass through the valley of the shadow of death.  His chastisements are mighty; and one smote me which has humbled me for ever.  You know I was proud of my strength: but what is it now, when I must give it over to foreign guidance, as a child does its weakness?  Of late, Jane—only—only of late—I began to see and acknowledge the hand of God in my doom.  I began to experience remorse, repentance; the wish for reconcilement to my Maker.  I began sometimes to pray: very brief prayers they were, but very sincere.“简！我想，你以为我是一条不敬神的狗吧，可是这会儿我对世间仁慈的上帝满怀感激之情。他看事物跟人不一样，要清楚得多；他判断事物跟人不一样，而要明智得多。我做错了，我会玷污清白的花朵——把罪孽带给无辜，要不是上帝把它从我这儿抢走的话。我倔强地对抗，险些儿咒骂这种处置方式，我不是俯首听命，而是全不放在眼里。神的审判照旧进行，大祸频频临头。我被迫走过死荫的幽谷，”他的惩罚十分严厉，其中一次惩罚是使我永远甘于谦卑。你知道我曾对自己的力量非常自傲，但如今它算得了什么呢？我不得不依靠他人的指引，就像孩子的孱弱一样。最近，简——只不过是最近——我在厄运中开始看到并承认上帝之手。我开始自责和忏悔，情愿听从造物主。有时我开始祈祷了，祷告很短，但很诚恳。“Some days since: nay, I can number them—four; it was last Monday night, a singular mood came over me: one in which grief replaced frenzy—sorrow, sullenness.  I had long had the impression that since I could nowhere find you, you must be dead.  Late that night—perhaps it might be between eleven and twelve o’clock—ere I retired to my dreary rest, I supplicated God, that, if it seemed good to Him, I might soon be taken from this life, and admitted to that world to come, where there was still hope of rejoining Jane.“已经有几天了，不，我能说出数字来——四天。那是上星期一晚上——我产生了一种奇怪的心情：忧伤，也就是悲哀和阴沉代替了狂乱。我早就想，既然到处找不着你，那你一定已经死了。那天深夜——也许在十一、二点之间——我闷闷不乐地去就寝之前，祈求上帝，要是他觉得这么做妥当的话，可以立刻把我从现世收去，准许我踏进未来的世界，那儿仍有希望与简相聚。”“I was in my own room, and sitting by the window, which was open: it soothed me to feel the balmy night-air; though I could see no stars and only by a vague, luminous haze, knew the presence of a moon.  I longed for thee, Janet!  Oh, I longed for thee both with soul and flesh!  I asked of God, at once in anguish and humility, if I had not been long enough desolate, afflicted, tormented; and might not soon taste bliss and peace once more.  That I merited all I endured, I acknowledged—that I could scarcely endure more, I pleaded; and the alpha and omega of my heart’s wishes broke involuntarily from my lips in the words—‘Jane!  Jane!  Jane!’”“我在自己的房间，坐在敞开着的窗边，清香的夜风沁人心脾。尽管我看不见星星，只是凭着一团模糊发亮的雾气，才知道有月亮。我盼着你，珍妮特！呵，无论是肉体还是灵魂，我都盼着你。我既痛苦而又谦卑地问上帝，我那么凄凉、痛苦、备受折磨，是不是已经够久了，会不会很快就再能尝到幸福与平静。我承认我所忍受的一切是应该的——我恳求，我实在不堪忍受了。我内心的全部愿望不由自主地崩出了我的嘴巴，化作这样几个字——“简！简！筒！”“Did you speak these words aloud?”“你大声说了这几个字吗？”“I did, Jane.  If any listener had heard me, he would have thought me mad: I pronounced them with such frantic energy.”“我说了，简。谁要是听见了，一定会以为我在发疯，我疯也似地使劲叫着那几个字。”“And it was last Monday night, somewhere near midnight?”“而那是星期一晚上，半夜时分！”“Yes; but the time is of no consequence: what followed is the strange point.  You will think me superstitious,—some superstition I have in my blood, and always had: nevertheless, this is true—true at least it is that I heard what I now relate.“不错，时间倒并不重要，随后发生的事儿才怪呢。你会认为我相信迷信吧——从气质来看，我是有些迷信，而且一直如此。不过，这回倒是真的——我现在说的都是我听到的，至少这一点是真的。”“As I exclaimed ‘Jane!  Jane!  Jane!’ a voice—I cannot tell whence the voice came, but I know whose voice it was—replied, ‘I am coming: wait for me;’ and a moment after, went whispering on the wind the words—‘Where are you?’“我大叫着‘筒！简！简！’的时候，不知道哪儿传来了一个声音，但听得出是谁的，这个声音回答道，‘我来了，请等一等我！’过了一会儿，清风送来了悄声细语——‘你在哪儿呀？”“I’ll tell you, if I can, the idea, the picture these words opened to my mind: yet it is difficult to express what I want to express.  Ferndean is buried, as you see, in a heavy wood, where sound falls dull, and dies unreverberating.  ‘Where are you?’ seemed spoken amongst mountains; for I heard a hill-sent echo repeat the words.  Cooler and fresher at the moment the gale seemed to visit my brow: I could have deemed that in some wild, lone scene, I and Jane were meeting.  In spirit, I believe we must have met.  You no doubt were, at that hour, in unconscious sleep, Jane: perhaps your soul wandered from its cell to comfort mine; for those were your accents—as certain as I live—they were yours!”“要是我能够，我会告诉你这些话在我的心灵中所展示的思想和画面，不过要表达自己的想法并不容易。你知道，芬丁庄园深藏在密林里，这儿的声音很沉闷，没有回荡便会消失。‘你在哪儿呀？’这声音似乎来自于大山中间，因为我听到了山林的回声重复着这几个字。这时空气凉爽清新，风似乎也朝我额头吹来。我会认为我与简在荒僻的野景中相会。我相信，在精神上我们一定已经相会了。毫无疑问，当时你睡得很熟，说不定你的灵魂脱离了它的躯壳来抚慰我的灵魂。因为那正是你的口音——千真万确——是你的！”Reader, it was on Monday night—near midnight—that I too had received the mysterious summons: those were the very words by which I replied to it.  I listened to Mr. Rochester’s narrative, but made no disclosure in return.  The coincidence struck me as too awful and inexplicable to be communicated or discussed.  If I told anything, my tale would be such as must necessarily make a profound impression on the mind of my hearer: and that mind, yet from its sufferings too prone to gloom, needed not the deeper shade of the supernatural.  I kept these things then, and pondered them in my heart.读者呀，正是星期一晚上——将近午夜——我也接到了神秘的召唤，而那些也正是我回答的活。我倾听着罗切斯特先生的叙述，却并没有向他吐露什么，我觉得这种巧合太令人畏惧，令人费解了，因而既难以言传，也无法议论。要是我说出什么来，我的经历也必定会在聆听者的心灵中留下深刻的印象，而这饱受痛苦的心灵上容易忧伤了，不需要再笼罩更深沉的超自然阴影了。于是我把这些纵情留在心里，反复思量。“You cannot now wonder,” continued my master, “that when you rose upon me so unexpectedly last night, I had difficulty in believing you any other than a mere voice and vision, something that would melt to silence and annihilation, as the midnight whisper and mountain echo had melted before.  Now, I thank God!  I know it to be otherwise.  Yes, I thank God!”“这会儿你不会奇怪了吧，”我主人继续说，“那天晚上你出乎意外地在我当前冒出来时。我难以相信你不只是一个声音和幻象，不只是某种会销声匿迹的东西，就像以前己经消失的夜半耳语和山间回声那样。现在我感谢上帝，我知道这回可不同了。是的，我感谢上帝！”He put me off his knee, rose, and reverently lifting his hat from his brow, and bending his sightless eyes to the earth, he stood in mute devotion.  Only the last words of the worship were audible.他把我从膝头上放下来。虔敬地从额头摘下帽子，向大地低下了没有视力的眼睛，虔诚地默默站立着，只有最后几句表示崇拜的话隐约可闻。“I thank my Maker, that, in the midst of judgment, he has remembered mercy.  I humbly entreat my Redeemer to give me strength to lead henceforth a purer life than I have done hitherto!”“我感谢造物主，在审判时还记着慈悲。我谦恭地恳求我的救世主赐予我力量，让我从今以后过一种比以往更纯洁的生活！”Then he stretched his hand out to be led.  I took that dear hand, held it a moment to my lips, then let it pass round my shoulder: being so much lower of stature than he, I served both for his prop and guide.  We entered the wood, and wended homeward.随后他伸出手让我领着，我握住了那只亲爱的手，在我的嘴唇上放了一会儿，随后让它挽住我肩膀，我个子比他矮得多，所以既做立支撑，又当了向导。我们进了树林，朝家里走去。CHAPTER XXXVIII—CONCLUSION第三十八章Reader, I married him.  A quiet wedding we had: he and I, the parson and clerk, were alone present.  When we got back from church, I went into the kitchen of the manor-house, where Mary was cooking the dinner and John cleaning the knives, and I said—读者呵，我同他结了婚。婚礼不事声张，到场的只有他和我，牧师和教堂执事。我从教堂里回来，走进庄园的厨房时，玛丽在做饭，约斡在擦拭刀具，我说：“Mary, I have been married to Mr. Rochester this morning.”  The housekeeper and her husband were both of that decent phlegmatic order of people, to whom one may at any time safely communicate a remarkable piece of news without incurring the danger of having one’s ears pierced by some shrill ejaculation, and subsequently stunned by a torrent of wordy wonderment.  Mary did look up, and she did stare at me: the ladle with which she was basting a pair of chickens roasting at the fire, did for some three minutes hang suspended in air; and for the same space of time John’s knives also had rest from the polishing process: but Mary, bending again over the roast, said only—“玛丽，今儿早上我和罗切斯特先生结了婚，”管家和她的丈夫都是不大动感情的规矩人，你什么时候都可以放心地告诉他们惊人的消息，而你的耳朵不会有被一声尖叫刺痛的危险，你也不会随之被一阵好奇的唠叨弄得目瞪口呆。玛丽确实抬起了头来，也确实盯着我看。她用来给两只烤着的鸡涂油的杓子，在空中停了大约三分钟，约翰忘了擦拭，手中的刀具停了同样长的时间。但是玛丽又弯下腰，忙她的烤鸡去了，只不过说：“Have you, Miss?  Well, for sure!”“是吗，小姐？嗯，那毫无疑问！”A short time after she pursued—“I seed you go out with the master, but I didn’t know you were gone to church to be wed;” and she basted away.  John, when I turned to him, was grinning from ear to ear.过了一会儿她接着说：“我看见你与主人出去，但我不知道你们是上教堂结婚的。”说完她又忙着给鸡涂油了，而约翰呢，我转向他的时候，他笑得合不拢嘴了。“I telled Mary how it would be,” he said: “I knew what Mr. Edward” (John was an old servant, and had known his master when he was the cadet of the house, therefore, he often gave him his Christian name)—“I knew what Mr. Edward would do; and I was certain he would not wait long neither: and he’s done right, for aught I know.  I wish you joy, Miss!” and he politely pulled his forelock.“我告诉过玛丽，事情会怎么样，”他说，“我知道爱德华先生”（约翰是个老佣人，他的主人还是幼子的时候他就认识他了。因此他常常用教名称呼他）——“我知道爱德华先生会怎么干。我肯定他不会等得很久，也许他做得很对。我祝你快乐，小姐！”他很有礼貌地拉了一下自己的前发。“Thank you, John.  Mr. Rochester told me to give you and Mary this.” “谢谢你，约翰。罗切斯特先生要我把这给你和玛丽。”I put into his hand a five-pound note.  Without waiting to hear more, I left the kitchen.  In passing the door of that sanctum some time after, I caught the words—我把一张五英磅的钞票塞进他手里。我没有再等他说什么便离开了厨房。不久之后我经过这间密室时，听见了这样的话：“She’ll happen do better for him nor ony o’t’ grand ladies.”  And again, “If she ben’t one o’ th’ handsomest, she’s noan faâl and varry good-natured; and i’ his een she’s fair beautiful, onybody may see that.”“也许她比哪一个阔小姐都更配他呢。”接着又说，“虽然她算不上最漂亮，但也不丑，而且脾气又好。我见她长得还是比较好看的，谁都看得出来。”I wrote to Moor House and to Cambridge immediately, to say what I had done: fully explaining also why I had thus acted.  Diana and Mary approved the step unreservedly.  Diana announced that she would just give me time to get over the honeymoon, and then she would come and see me.我立即写信给沼泽居和剑桥，把我的情况告诉了他们，并详细解释了我为什么要这么干。黛安娜和玛丽毫无保留地对此表示赞同，黛安娜还说，让我过好蜜月，就来看我。“She had better not wait till then, Jane,” said Mr. Rochester, when I read her letter to him; “if she does, she will be too late, for our honeymoon will shine our life long: its beams will only fade over your grave or mine.”“她还是别等到那个时候吧，简，”罗切斯特先生听我读了她的信后说，“要不然她会太晚了，因为我们的蜜月的清辉会照耀我们一生，它的光芒只有在你我进入坟墓时才会消褪。”How St. John received the news, I don’t know: he never answered the letter in which I communicated it: yet six months after he wrote to me, without, however, mentioning Mr. Rochester’s name or alluding to my marriage.  His letter was then calm, and, though very serious, kind.  He has maintained a regular, though not frequent, correspondence ever since: he hopes I am happy, and trusts I am not of those who live without God in the world, and only mind earthly things.圣•约翰对这个消息的反响如何，我一无所知。我透露消息的那封信，他从来没有回复。但六个月后，他写信给我，却没有提及罗切斯特先生的名字，也没有说起我的婚事。他的信平静而友好，但很严肃。从那以后，他虽不经常来信，却按时写给我，祝我快乐，并相信我不会是那种活在世上，只顾俗事而忘了上帝的人。You have not quite forgotten little Adèle, have you, reader?  I had not; I soon asked and obtained leave of Mr. Rochester, to go and see her at the school where he had placed her.  Her frantic joy at beholding me again moved me much.  She looked pale and thin: she said she was not happy.  I found the rules of the establishment were too strict, its course of study too severe for a child of her age: I took her home with me.  I meant to become her governess once more, but I soon found this impracticable; my time and cares were now required by another—my husband needed them all.  So I sought out a school conducted on a more indulgent system, and near enough to permit of my visiting her often, and bringing her home sometimes.  I took care she should never want for anything that could contribute to her comfort: she soon settled in her new abode, became very happy there, and made fair progress in her studies.  你没有完全忘记小阿黛勒吧，是不是呀，读者？我并没有忘记。我向罗切斯特先生提出，并得到了他的许可，上他安顿小阿黛勒的学校去看看她。她一见我便欣喜若狂的情景，着实令我感动。她看上去苍白消瘦，还说不愉快。我发现对她这样年龄的孩子来说，这个学校的规章太严格，课程太紧张了。我把她带回了家。我本想再当她的家庭教师，但不久却发现不切实际。现在我的时间与精力给了另一个人——我的丈夫全都需要它。因此我选了一个校规比较宽容的学校，而且又近家，让我常常可去探望她，有时还可以把她带回家来。我还留意让她过得舒舒服服，什么都不缺。她很快在新的居所安顿下来了，在那儿过得很愉快，学习上也取得了长足的进步。As she grew up, a sound English education corrected in a great measure her French defects; and when she left school, I found in her a pleasing and obliging companion: docile, good-tempered, and well-principled.  By her grateful attention to me and mine, she has long since well repaid any little kindness I ever had it in my power to offer her.她长大以后，健全的英国教育很大程度上纠正了她的法国式缺陷。她离开学校时，我发觉她已是一个讨人喜欢、懂礼貌的伙伴，和气，听话，很讲原则。她出于感激，对我和我家人的照应，早已报答了我在力所能及的情况下给予她的微小帮助。My tale draws to its close: one word respecting my experience of married life, and one brief glance at the fortunes of those whose names have most frequently recurred in this narrative, and I have done.我的故事已近尾声，再说一两句关于我婚后的生活情况，粗略地看一看他们的名字在我叙述中反复出现的人的命运，我也就把故事讲完了。I have now been married ten years.  I know what it is to live entirely for and with what I love best on earth.  I hold myself supremely blest—blest beyond what language can express; because I am my husband’s life as fully as he is mine.  No woman was ever nearer to her mate than I am: ever more absolutely bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh.  I know no weariness of my Edward’s society: he knows none of mine, any more than we each do of the pulsation of the heart that beats in our separate bosoms; consequently, we are ever together.  To be together is for us to be at once as free as in solitude, as gay as in company.  We talk, I believe, all day long: to talk to each other is but a more animated and an audible thinking.  All my confidence is bestowed on him, all his confidence is devoted to me; we are precisely suited in character—perfect concord is the result.如今我结婚已经十年了。我明白一心跟世上我最喜爱的人生活，为他而生活是怎么回事。我认为自己无比幸福——幸福得难以言传，因为我完全是丈夫的生命，他也完全是我的生命。没有女人比我跟丈夫更为亲近了，比我更绝对地是他的骨中之骨，肉中之肉了。我与爱德华相处，永远不知疲倦，他同我相处也是如此，就像我们对搏动在各自的胸腔里的心跳不会厌倦一样。结果，我们始终呆在一起。对我们来说，在一起既像独处时一样自由，又像相聚时一样欢乐。我想我们整天交谈着，相互交谈不过是一种听得见、更活跃的思索罢了。他同我推心置腹，我同他无话不谈。我们的性格完全投合，结果彼此心心相印。Mr. Rochester continued blind the first two years of our union; perhaps it was that circumstance that drew us so very near—that knit us so very close: for I was then his vision, as I am still his right hand.  Literally, I was (what he often called me) the apple of his eye.  He saw nature—he saw books through me; and never did I weary of gazing for his behalf, and of putting into words the effect of field, tree, town, river, cloud, sunbeam—of the landscape before us; of the weather round us—and impressing by sound on his ear what light could no longer stamp on his eye.  Never did I weary of reading to him; never did I weary of conducting him where he wished to go: of doing for him what he wished to be done.  And there was a pleasure in my services, most full, most exquisite, even though sad—because he claimed these services without painful shame or damping humiliation.  He loved me so truly, that he knew no reluctance in profiting by my attendance: he felt I loved him so fondly, that to yield that attendance was to indulge my sweetest wishes.我们结合后的头两年，罗切断特先生依然失明，也许正是这种状况使我们彼此更加密切——靠得很紧，因为当时我成了他的眼晴，就像现在我依然是他的右手一样。我确实是他的眼珠（他常常这样称呼我）。他通过我看大自然，看书。我毫无厌倦地替他观察，用语言来描述田野、树林、城镇、河流、云彩、阳光和面前的景色的效果，描述我们周围的天气——用声音使他的耳朵得到光线无法再使他的眼睛得到的印象。我从不厌倦地读书给他听，领他去想去的地方，干他想干的事。我乐此不疲，尽管有些伤心，却享受充分而独特的愉快，——因为他要求我帮忙时没有痛苦地感到羞愧，也没有沮丧地觉得屈辱。他真诚地爱着我，从不勉为其难地受我照料。他觉得我爱他如此之深，受我照料就是满足我最愉快的希望。One morning at the end of the two years, as I was writing a letter to his dictation, he came and bent over me, and said—第二年年末的一个早晨，我正由他口授，写一封信的时候，他走过来朝我低下头说——“Jane, have you a glittering ornament round your neck?”“简，你脖子上有一件闪光的饰品吗？”I had a gold watch-chain: I answered “Yes.”我挂着一根金表链，于是回答说：“是呀。”“And have you a pale blue dress on?”“你还穿了件淡蓝色衣服吗？”I had.  He informed me then, that for some time he had fancied the obscurity clouding one eye was becoming less dense; and that now he was sure of it.“我确实穿了。随后他告诉我，已经有一段时间，他设想遮蔽着一只眼的云翳已渐渐变薄，现在确信如此了。He and I went up to London.  He had the advice of an eminent oculist; and he eventually recovered the sight of that one eye.  He cannot now see very distinctly: he cannot read or write much; but he can find his way without being led by the hand: the sky is no longer a blank to him—the earth no longer a void.  When his first-born was put into his arms, he could see that the boy had inherited his own eyes, as they once were—large, brilliant, and black.  On that occasion, he again, with a full heart, acknowledged that God had tempered judgment with mercy.他和我去了一趟伦敦，看了一位著名的眼科医生，最终恢复了那一只眼睛的视力。如今他虽不能看得清清楚楚，也不能久读多写，但可以不必让人牵着手就能走路，对他来说天空不再空空荡荡，大地不再是一片虚空。当他的第一个孩子放在他怀里时，他能看得清这男孩继承了他本来的那双眼睛——又大，又亮，又黑，在那一时刻，他又一次甘愿承认，上帝仁慈地减轻了对他的惩罚。My Edward and I, then, are happy: and the more so, because those we most love are happy likewise.  Diana and Mary Rivers are both married: alternately, once every year, they come to see us, and we go to see them.  Diana’s husband is a captain in the navy, a gallant officer and a good man.  Mary’s is a clergyman, a college friend of her brother’s, and, from his attainments and principles, worthy of the connection.  Both Captain Fitzjames and Mr. Wharton love their wives, and are loved by them.于是我的爱德华和我都很幸福，尤使我们感到幸福的是，我们最爱的人也一样很幸福。黛安娜和玛丽•里弗斯都结了婚。我们双方轮流，一年一度，不是他们来看我们，就是我们去看他们，黛安娜的丈夫是个海军上校，一位英武的军官，一个好人。玛丽的丈夫是位牧师，她哥哥大学里的朋友，无论从造诣还是品行来看，这门亲事都很般配。菲茨詹姆斯上校和沃顿先生同自己的妻子彼此相爱。As to St. John Rivers, he left England: he went to India.  He entered on the path he had marked for himself; he pursues it still.  A more resolute, indefatigable pioneer never wrought amidst rocks and dangers.  Firm, faithful, and devoted, full of energy, and zeal, and truth, he labours for his race; he clears their painful way to improvement; he hews down like a giant the prejudices of creed and caste that encumber it.  He may be stern; he may be exacting; he may be ambitious yet; but his is the sternness of the warrior Greatheart, who guards his pilgrim convoy from the onslaught of Apollyon.  His is the exaction of the apostle, who speaks but for Christ, when he says—“Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.”  His is the ambition of the high master-spirit, which aims to fill a place in the first rank of those who are redeemed from the earth—who stand without fault before the throne of God, who share the last mighty victories of the Lamb, who are called, and chosen, and faithful.至于圣•约翰•里弗斯，他离开英国到了印度，踏上了自己所规划的道路，依然这么走下去，他奋斗于岩石和危险之中，再也没有比他更坚定不移、不知疲倦的先驱者了。他坚决、忠实、虔诚。他精力充沛、热情真诚地为自己的同类含辛茹苦，他为他们开辟艰辛的前进之路，像巨人一般砍掉拦在路上的信条和等级的偏见。他也许很严厉，也许很苛刻，也许还雄心勃勃，但他的严厉是武士大心一类的严厉，大心保卫他所护送的香客，免受亚玻伦人的袭击，他的苛刻是使徒那种苛刻，他代表上帝说：“若有人要跟从我，就当舍己，背起他的十字架来跟从我。”他的雄心是高尚的主的精神之雄心，目的是要名列尘世得救者的前茅——这些人毫无过错地站在上帝的宝座前面，分享耶稣最后的伟大胜利。他们被召唤，被选中，都是些忠贞不二的人。St. John is unmarried: he never will marry now.  Himself has hitherto sufficed to the toil, and the toil draws near its close: his glorious sun hastens to its setting.  The last letter I received from him drew from my eyes human tears, and yet filled my heart with divine joy: he anticipated his sure reward, his incorruptible crown.  I know that a stranger’s hand will write to me next, to say that the good and faithful servant has been called at length into the joy of his Lord.  And why weep for this?  No fear of death will darken St. John’s last hour: his mind will be unclouded, his heart will be undaunted, his hope will be sure, his faith steadfast.  His own words are a pledge of this—圣•约翰没有结婚，现在再也不会了。他独自一人足以胜任辛劳，他的劳作已快结束。他那光辉的太阳急匆匆下沉。他给我的最后一封信，催下了我世俗的眼泪，也使我心中充满了神圣的欢乐。他提前得到了必定得到的酬报，那不朽的桂冠。我知道一只陌生的手随之会写信给我，说这位善良而忠实的仆人最后已被召安享受主的欢乐了。为什么要为此而哭泣呢？不会有死的恐惧使圣•约翰的临终时刻暗淡无光。他的头脑十分明晰；他的心灵无所畏惧；他的希望十分可靠；他的信念不可动摇。他自己的话就是一个很好的保证：“My Master,” he says, “has forewarned me.  Daily He announces more distinctly,—‘Surely I come quickly!’ and hourly I more eagerly respond,—‘Amen; even so come, Lord Jesus!’”“我的主，”他说，“已经预先警告过我。日复一日他都更加明确地宣告，‘是了，我必快来，’我每时每刻更加急切地回答，‘阿门，主耶稣呵，我愿你来！’”————————全书完————————
